<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Appendix A: Common Core State Standards Standards for Mathematical Practice</title>
</head>

<body epub:type="backmatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="pagea1" class="pagebreak" title="A-1" /><span class="number">Appendix A</span></h1>
        </header>
         <header id="app_01">
            <h1 class="title">
                <strong>Common Core State Standards</strong> Standards for Mathematical Practice</h1>
        </header>
        <p>The Standards for Mathematical Practice describe varieties of expertise that mathematics educators at all
            levels should seek to develop in their students. These practices rest on important &#8220;processes and
            proficiencies&#8221; with long-standing importance in mathematics education. The first of these are the NCTM
            process standards of problem solving, reasoning and proof, communication, representation, and connections.
            The second are the strands of mathematical proficiency specified in the National Research Council&#8217;s
            report <em>Adding It Up:</em> adaptive reasoning, strategic competence, conceptual understanding
            (comprehension of mathematical concepts, operations and relations), procedural fluency (skill in carrying
            out procedures flexibly, accurately, efficiently and appropriately), and productive disposition (habitual
            inclination to see mathematics as sensible, useful, and worthwhile, coupled with a belief in diligence and
            one&#8217;s own efficacy).</p>
        <p class="source"><em>Source: Common Core State Standards for Mathematics</em> was developed by the Council of
            Chief State School Officers. Copies may be downloaded at <a href="http://www.ccsso.org/"
                class="ulink">http://www.ccsso.org/</a>.</p>
        <header id="app-a-01">
            <h2 class="title"><span id="pagea2" class="pagebreak" title="A-2" />1 Make sense of problems and persevere
                in solving them</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Mathematically proficient students start by explaining to themselves the meaning of a problem and looking for
            entry points to its solution. They analyze givens, constraints, relationships, and goals. They make
            conjectures about the form and meaning of the solution and plan a solution pathway rather than simply
            jumping into a solution attempt. They consider analogous problems, and try special cases and simpler forms
            of the original problem in order to gain insight into its solution. They monitor and evaluate their progress
            and change course if necessary. Older students might, depending on the context of the problem, transform
            algebraic expressions or change the viewing window on their graphing calculator to get the information they
            need. Mathematically proficient students can explain correspondences between equations, verbal descriptions,
            tables, and graphs or draw diagrams of important features and relationships, graph data, and search for
            regularity or trends. Younger students might rely on using concrete objects or pictures to help
            conceptualize and solve a problem. Mathematically proficient students check their answers to problems using
            a different method, and they continually ask themselves, &#8220;Does this make sense?&#8221; They can
            understand the approaches of others to solving complex problems and identify correspondences between
            different approaches.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>