<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>

<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>8 Look for and express regularity in repeated reasoning.</title>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">8 Look for and express regularity in repeated reasoning</h2>
</header>
<p>Mathematically proficient students notice if calculations are repeated, and look both for general methods and for shortcuts. Upper elementary students might notice when dividing 25 by 11 that they are repeating the same calculations over and over again, and conclude they have a repeating decimal. By paying attention to the calculation of slope as they repeatedly check whether points are on the line through (1, 2) with slope 3, middle school students might abstract the equation <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render10.png" alttext="left parenthesis y minus 2 right parenthesis divided by left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis equals 3 space" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>)</mo><mtext>/</mtext><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mo>=</mo><mn>3</mn></mrow></math>. Noticing the regularity in the way terms cancel when expanding <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render11.png" alttext="left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis x plus 1 right parenthesis" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></math>, <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render12.png" alttext="left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis x squared plus x plus 1 right parenthesis" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mo>(</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></math>, and <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render13.png" alttext="left parenthesis x minus 1 right parenthesis left parenthesis x cubed plus x squared plus x plus 1 right parenthesis" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo><mo>(</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></math> might lead them to the general formula for the sum of a geometric series. As they work to solve a problem, mathematically proficient students maintain oversight of the process, while attending to the details. They continually evaluate the reasonableness of their intermediate results.<span id="pagea5" class="pagebreak" title="A-5" /></p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="app-a-01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="app-a-01">Connecting the Standards for Mathematical Practice to the Standards for Mathematical Content</h2></header>
<p>The Standards for Mathematical Practice describe ways in which developing student practitioners of the discipline of mathematics increasingly ought to engage with the subject matter as they grow in mathematical maturity and expertise throughout the elementary, middle, and high school years. Designers of curricula, assessments, and professional development should all attend to the need to connect the mathematical practices to mathematical content in mathematics instruction.</p>
<p>The Standards for Mathematical Content are a balanced combination of procedure and understanding. Expectations that begin with the word &#8220;understand&#8221; are often especially good opportunities to connect the practices to the content. Students who lack understanding of a topic may rely on procedures too heavily. Without a flexible base from which to work, they may be less likely to consider analogous problems, represent problems coherently, justify conclusions, apply the mathematics to practical situations, use technology mindfully to work with the mathematics, explain the mathematics accurately to other students, step back for an overview, or deviate from a known procedure to find a shortcut. In short, a lack of understanding effectively prevents a student from engaging in the mathematical practices.</p>
<p>In this respect, those content standards which set an expectation of understanding are potential &#8220;points of intersection&#8221; between the Standards for Mathematical Content and the Standards for Mathematical Practice. These points of intersection are intended to be weighted toward central and generative concepts in the school mathematics curriculum that most merit the time, resources, innovative energies, and focus necessary to qualitatively improve the curriculum, instruction, assessment, professional development, and student achievement in mathematics.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>