<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
    id="oybjcd0413eed2417bfce0aeec19deed">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <title>References</title>
</head>

<body epub:type="backmatter">
    <section epub:type="bibliography" role="doc-bibliography" class="bibliography level1" id="glos">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="pager1" class="pagebreak" title="R-1" />References</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec1">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 1</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_1">
                    <p>Ambrose, R. (2002). Are we overemphasizing manipulatives in the primary grades to the detriment
                        of girls? <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, 9(1), 16&#8211;21.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_2">
                    <p>Bleiler, S., Baxter, W., Stephens, C., &amp; Barlow, A. (2015). Constructing meaning: Standards
                        for mathematical practice. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 21</em>(6), 336&#8211;344.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_3">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_4">
                    <p><span id="pager2" class="pagebreak" title="R-2" />Claessens, A., Duncan, G., &amp; Engel, M.
                        (2009). Kindergarten skills and fifth-grade achievement: Evidence from the ECLS-K. <em>Economics
                            of Education Review, 28</em>, 415&#8211;427.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_5">
                    <p>Friedman, T. (2007). <em>The world is flat 3.0: A brief history of the twenty-first century.</em>
                        New York: Picador.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_6">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics</em>. Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_7">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence.</em> Reston, VA: Author.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_8">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2014) <em>Principles and actions: Ensuring
                            mathematical success for all</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_9">
                    <p>National Research Council. (2001). <em>Adding it up: Helping children learn mathematics</em>. J.
                        Kilpatrick, J. Swafford, &amp; B. Findell (Eds.). Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_10">
                    <p>Norton, A., &amp; D&#8217;Ambrosio, B. S. (2008). ZPC and ZPD: Zones of teaching and learning.
                        <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education</em>, 39(3), 220&#8211;246.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_11">
                    <p>Piaget, J. (1976). <em>The child&#8217;s conception of the world.</em> Totowa, NJ: Littlefield,
                        Adams.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_12">
                    <p>Schoenfeld, A. H., Floden, R. E., &amp; the Algebra Teaching Study and Mathematics Assessment
                        Project. (2014). <em>An introduction to the TRU Math Dimensions.</em> Berkeley and E. Lansing,
                        MI: Graduate School of Education, University of California, Berkeley &amp; College of Education,
                        Michigan State University. Retrieved from: http://ats.berkeley.edu/tools.html and/or
                        http://map.mathshell.org/materials/pd.php.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_13">
                    <p>Skemp, R. (1978). Relational understanding and instrumental understanding. <em>Arithmetic
                            Teacher</em>, <em>26</em>(3), 9&#8211;15.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_14">
                    <p>Steen, L. A. (Ed.). (1997). <em>Why numbers count: Quantitative literacy for tomorrow&#8217;s
                            America</em>. New York: The College Board.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_15">
                    <p>von Glasersfeld, E. (1995). <em>Radical constructivism: A way of knowing and learning</em>.
                        London: Falmer Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_16">
                    <p>Vygotsky, L. S. (1978). <em>Mind and society</em>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_17">
                    <p>Watts, T., Duncan, G., Siegler, R., &amp; Davis-Kean, P. (2014). What&#8217;s past is prologue:
                        Relations between early mathematics knowledge and high school achievement. <em>Educational
                            Researcher, 43</em>(7), 352&#8211;360.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_18">
                    <p>Wiggins, G., &amp; McTighe, J. (2005). <em>Understanding by design</em> (2nd ed.). Alexandria,
                        VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_19">
                    <p>Wood, T., &amp; Turner Vorbeck, T. (2001). Extending the conception of mathematics teaching. In
                        T. Wood, B. S. Nelson, &amp; J. Warfield (Eds.), <em>Beyond classical pedagogy: Teaching
                            elementary school mathematics</em> (pp. 185&#8211;208). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 2</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_20">
                    <p>Anderson, L.W., &amp; Krathwohl, D. R. (Eds.) (2001). <em>A taxonomy for learning, teaching, and
                            assessing: A revision of Bloom&#8217;s Taxonomy of educational objectives: Complete
                            Edition</em>. New York: Addison Wesley, Longman.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_21">
                    <p>Ball, D. L. (1992). Magical hopes: Manipulatives and the reform of math education. <em>American
                            Educator, 16</em>(2), 14&#8211;18, 46&#8211;47.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_22">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2016). <em>Mathematical mindsets</em>. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_23">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2013). Ability and mathematics: The mindset revolution that is reshaping education.
                        <em>FORUM, 55</em>(1), 143-152.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_24">
                    <p>Bray, W. S. (2013). How to leverage the potential of mathematical errors. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 19</em>(7), 425&#8211;431.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_25">
                    <p>Breyfogle, M., &amp; Williams, L. (2008/2009). Designing and implementing worthwhile tasks.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, 15(5), 276&#8211;280.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_26">
                    <p>Carter, S. (2008). Disequilibrium and questioning in the primary classroom: Establishing routines
                        that help students learn. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 15</em>(3), 134&#8211;137.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_27">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_28">
                    <p>Chapin, S., O&#8217;Connor, C., &amp; Anderson, N. (2009). <em>Classroom discussions: Using math
                            talk to help students learn</em> (2nd ed.). Sausalito, CA: Math Solutions.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_29">
                    <p>Clement, L. (2004). A model for understanding, using, and connecting representations.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, 11(2), 97&#8211;102.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_30">
                    <p>Davis, B., Sumara, D., &amp; Luce-Kapler, R. (2008). <em>Engaging minds: Changing teaching in
                            complex times.</em> New York: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_31">
                    <p>Dweck, C. (2006). <em>Mindset: The new psychology of success</em>. New York: Random House.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_32">
                    <p>Dweck, C. (2014, November). <em>The power of believing you can improve.</em> [Video File].
                        Retrieved from
                        https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve?language=en.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_33">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. T., &amp; Dolk, M. (2001). <em>Young mathematicians at work: Constructing number
                            sense, addition, and subtraction</em>. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_34">
                    <p>Green, E. (2014, February). Why do Americans stink at math? <em>New York Times Magazine.</em>
                        Retrieved from
                        http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/27/magazine/why-do-americans-stink-at-math.html?_r=0</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_35">
                    <p>Green, E. (2015). <em>Building a better teacher: How teaching works.</em> New York: W.W. Norton.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_36">
                    <p>Herbel-Eisenmann, B. A., &amp; Breyfogle, M. L. (2005). Questioning our patterns of questioning.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 10</em>(9), 484&#8211;489.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_37">
                    <p>Hiebert, J., Carpenter, T. P., Fennema, E., Fuson, K., Wearne, D., Murray, H., Olivier, A., &amp;
                        Human, P. (1997). <em>Making sense: Teaching and learning mathematics with understanding</em>.
                        Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_38">
                    <p>Hiebert, J., &amp; Grouws, D. A. (2007). The effects of classroom mathematics teaching on
                        students&#8217; learning. In F. K. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics
                            teaching and learning</em> (pp. 371&#8211;404). Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_39">
                    <p>Hong, L. (1993). <em>Two of everything: A Chinese folktale.</em> New York: Albert Whitman.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_40">
                    <p>Humphreys, C., &amp; Parker, R. (2015). <em>Making number talks matter.</em> Portland, ME:
                        Stenhouse.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_41">
                    <p>Hunt, A., Nipper, K., &amp; Nash, L. (2011). Virtual vs. concrete manipulatives in mathematics
                        teacher education: Is one type more effective than the other? <em>Current Issues in Middle Level
                            Education, 16</em>(2), 1-6</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_42">
                    <p>Jacobs, V. R., &amp; Ambrose, R. C. (2008). Making the most of story problems. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics</em>, 15(5), 260&#8211;266.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_43">
                    <p>Jacobs, V. R., Lamb, L. L. C., &amp; Philipp, R. A. (2010). Professional noticing of
                        children&#8217;s mathematical thinking. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education,
                            41</em>(2), 169&#8211;202.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_44">
                    <p>Jacobs, V. R., Martin, H. A., Ambrose, R. C., and Philipp, R. A. (2014). Warning signs!
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics 21</em>(2), 107&#8211;113.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_45">
                    <p>Kilic, H., Cross, D. I., Ersoz, F. A., Mewborn, D. S., Swanagan, D., &amp; Kim, J. (2010).
                        Techniques for small-group discourse. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, 16(6),
                        350&#8211;357.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_46">
                    <p>Lesh, R. A., Cramer, K., Doerr, H., Post, T., &amp; Zawojewski, J. (2003). Model development
                        sequences. In R. A. Lesh &amp; H. Doerr (Eds.), <em>Beyond constructivism: A models and modeling
                            perspective on mathematics teaching, learning, and problem solving</em> (pp. 35&#8211;58).
                        Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_47">
                    <p>Lim, K. H. (2014). Error-eliciting problems: Fostering understanding and thinking.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 20(2),</em> 106&#8211;114.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_48">
                    <p>McCoy, A., Barnett, J., &amp; Combs, E. (2013). <em>High-yield routines: Grades K-8.</em> Reston,
                        VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_49">
                    <p>Moschkovich, J. N. (1998). Supporting the participation of English language learners in
                        mathematical discussions. <em>For the Learning of Mathematics, 19</em>(1), 11&#8211;19.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_50">
                    <p>Murrey, D. L. (2008). Differentiating instruction in mathematics for the English language
                        learner. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 14</em>(3), 146&#8211;153.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_51">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2014). <em>Principles to Actions: Ensuring
                            Mathematical Success of All</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_52">
                    <p>Parrish, S. (2011). Number talks build numerical reasoning. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics,
                            18</em>(3), 198&#8211;206.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_53">
                    <p>Parrish, S. (2014). <em>Number talks: Helping children develop mental math and computation
                            strategies, grades K-5.</em> Sausalito, CA: Math Solutions.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_54">
                    <p>Pesek, D., &amp; Kirshner, D. (2002). Interference of instrumental instruction in subsequent
                        relational learning. In J. Sowder &amp; B. P. Schappelle (Eds.), <em>Lessons learned from
                            research</em> (pp. 101&#8211;107). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_55">
                    <p>Philipp, R., &amp; Vincent, C. (2003). Reflecting on learning fractions without understanding.
                        <em>OnMath, 2</em>(7).</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_56">
                    <p>Rasmussen, C., Yackel, E., &amp; King, K. (2003). Social and sociomathematical norms in the
                        mathematics classroom. In H. L. Schoen &amp; R. I. Charles (Eds.), <em>Teaching mathematics
                            through problem solving: Grades 6&#8211;12</em> (pp. 143&#8211;154). Reston, VA: National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_57">
                    <p>Simpson, A., Mokalled, S., Ellenburg, L., &amp; Che, S. M. (2014/2015). A tool for rethinking
                        questioning. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 20</em>(5), 294&#8211;302.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_58">
                    <p>Smith, M., Hughes, E., Engle, R., &amp; Stein, M. (2009). Orchestrating discussions.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 14</em>(9), 548&#8211;556.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_59">
                    <p>Smith, M. S., &amp; Stein, M. K. (1998). Selecting and creating mathematical tasks: From research
                        to practice. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 3</em>(5), 344&#8211;350.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_60">
                    <p>Smith, M. S., &amp; Stein, M. K. (2011). <em>5 Practices for orchestrating productive mathematics
                            discussions.</em> Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_61">
                    <p>Stein, M. K., &amp; Bovalino, J. W. (2001). Manipulatives: One piece of the puzzle. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 6</em>(6), 356&#8211;359.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_62">
                    <p>Stephan, M., &amp; Whitenack, J. (2003). Establishing classroom social and sociomathematical
                        norms for problem solving. In F. K. Lester, Jr., &amp; R. I. Charles (Eds.), <em>Teaching
                            mathematics through problem solving: Grades pre-K&#8211;6</em> (pp. 149&#8211;162). Reston,
                        VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_63">
                    <p>Suh, J. M. (2007a). Developing &#8220;algebra-&#8217;rithmetic&#8221; in the elementary grades.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(4), 246&#8211;253.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_64">
                    <p>Suh, J. M. (2007b). Tying it all together: Building mathematics proficiency for all students.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(3), 163&#8211;169.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_65">
                    <p>Thompson, P. W. (1994). Concrete materials and teaching for mathematical understanding.
                        <em>Arithmetic Teacher, 41</em>(9), 556&#8211;558.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_66">
                    <p>Utah State University. (2016). <em>National Library of Virtual Manipulatives</em>. Retrieved
                        October 1, 2016 from http://nlvm.usu.edu.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_67">
                    <p>Wagganer, E. L. (2015). Creating math talk communities. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics
                            22</em>(4), 248&#8211;254.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_68">
                    <p><span id="pager3" class="pagebreak" title="R-3" />Wallace, A. (2007). Anticipating student
                        responses to improve problem solving. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 12</em>(9),
                        504&#8211;511.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_69">
                    <p>Wickett, M., Kharas, K., &amp; Burns, M. (2002). <em>Lessons for algebraic thinking.</em>
                        Sausalito, CA: Math Solutions Publications.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_70">
                    <p>Wiggins, G. (2013, May 5). Letter to the Editor. <em>New York Times</em>, p. 2.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_71">
                    <p>Wood, T., Williams, G., &amp; McNeal, B. (2006). Children&#8217;s mathematical thinking in
                        different classroom cultures. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 37</em>(3),
                        222&#8211;255.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_72">
                    <p>Yackel, E., &amp; Cobb, P. (1996). Sociomathematical norms, argumentation, and autonomy in
                        mathematics. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 27</em>(4), 458&#8211;477.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec3">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 3</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_73">
                    <p>Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators, &amp; National Council of Supervisors of
                        Mathematics. (n.d.). <em>Improving student achievement in mathematics through formative
                            assessment in instruction.</em> Joint position paper,
                        http://amte.net/sites/default/files/overview_amte_ncsm_position_paper_formative_assessment.pdf.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_74">
                    <p>Bray, W., &amp; Santagata, R. (2014). Making mathematical errors: Springboards for learning. In
                        Karp &amp; A. Roth McDuffie (Eds.), <em>Using research to improve instruction</em> (pp.
                        239&#8211;248). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_75">
                    <p>Casa, T. M., Firmender, J. M., Cahill, J., Cardetti, F., Choppin, J. M., Cohen, J., Zawodniak, R.
                        (2016). Types of and purposes for elementary mathematical writing: Taskforce recommendations.
                        Retrieved from http://mathwriting.education.uconn.edu.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_76">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_77">
                    <p>Daro, P., Mosher, F., &amp; Corcoran, T. (2011). <em>Learning trajectories in mathematics: A
                            foundation for standards, curriculum assessment and instruction.</em> Philadelphia, PA:
                        Consortium for Policy Research in Education.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_78">
                    <p>Fennell, F., Kobett, B., &amp; Wray, J. A. (2015). Classroom-based formative
                        assessments&#8212;Guiding teaching and learning. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 21</em>(6),
                        325-327.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_79">
                    <p>Frayer, D. A., Fredrick, W. C., &amp; Klausmeier, H. J. (April 1969). <em>A schema for testing
                            the level of concept mastery</em> (Working Paper No. 16), University of Wisconsin Center for
                        Educational Research.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_80">
                    <p>Hattie, J. (2009). <em>Visible learning: A synthesis of over analyses relating to
                            achievement.</em> New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_81">
                    <p>Hattie, J. (2015). <em>The effective use of testing: What the research says</em>. <em>Education
                            Week</em>, October 28.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_82">
                    <p>Jacob, V. R., Lamb, L., &amp; Philipp, R. A. (2010). Professional noticing of children&#8217;s
                        mathematical thinking. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education 41</em>(2),
                        169&#8211;202.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_83">
                    <p>Lepak, J. (2014). Enhancing students&#8217; written mathematical arguments. <em>Mathematics
                            Teaching in the Middle School 20</em>(4), 212&#8211;219.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_84">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2014). <em>Principles to Action: Ensuring
                            Mathematical Success of All</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_85">
                    <p>National Governors Association &amp; Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010, June).
                        <em>Common Core State Standards Initiative</em>. Retrieved from www.corestandards.org.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_86">
                    <p>Nyquist, J. B. (2003). <em>The benefits of reconstruing feedback as a larger system of formative
                            assessment: A metaanalysis.</em> Unpublished master&#8217;s thesis. Vanderbilt University,
                        Nashville, TN.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_87">
                    <p>Parker, R., &amp; Breyfogle, L. (2011). Learning to write about mathematics. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 18</em>(2), 90&#8211;99.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_88">
                    <p>Petit, M., &amp; Bouck, M. (2015). The essence of formative assessment in practice: Classroom
                        examples. <em>NCSM Journal of Mathematics Education Leadership, 16</em>(1), 19&#8211;27.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_89">
                    <p>Philipp, R., Cabral, C., &amp; Schappell, B. (2012). <em>IMAP integrating mathematics and
                            pedagogy</em>. New York, NY: Pearson.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_90">
                    <p>Popham, W. J. (2008). <em>Transformative assessment.</em> Alexandria, VA: Association for
                        Supervision and Curriculum Development.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_91">
                    <p>Rigelman, N., &amp; Petrick, K. (2014). Student mathematicians developed through formative
                        assessment cycles. In K. Karp &amp; A. Roth McDuffie, <em>Annual Perspectives in Mathematics
                            Education: Using Research to Improve Instruction</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_92">
                    <p>Simpson, A., Mokalled, S, Ellenburg, L. A., &amp; Che, S. M. (2014/2015). A tool for rethinking
                        teachers&#8217; questioning. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 20</em>(45),
                        294&#8211;302.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_93">
                    <p>Smith, M. S., &amp; Stein, M. K. (2011). <em>5 Practices for orchestrating productive mathematics
                            discussions.</em> Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_94">
                    <p>Stephan, M., McManus, G., &amp; Dehlinger, R. (2014). Using research to inform formative
                        assessment techniques. In K. Karp &amp; A. Roth McDuffie (Eds.), <em>Annual Perspectives in
                            Mathematics Education: Using Research to Improve Instruction.</em> (pp. 229&#8211;238).
                        Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_95">
                    <p>Stiggins, R. (2009). Assessment for learning in upper elementary grades. <em>Phi Delta Kappan,
                            90</em>(6), 419&#8211;421.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_96">
                    <p>Webb, N. L. (2002, April). An analysis of the alignment between mathematics standards and
                        assessments for three states. In <em>Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research
                            Association, New Orleans, LA</em>.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_97">
                    <p>Wiliam, D. (2007). Content then process: Teacher learning communities in the service of formative
                        assessment. In D. B. Reeves (Ed.), <em>Ahead of the curve: The power of assessment to transform
                            teaching and learning</em> (pp. 183&#8211;204). Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_98">
                    <p>Wiliam, D. (2010). Practical techniques for formative assessment. Presentation given in Boras,
                        Sweden, September 2010. Retrieved June 11, 2011, from
                        www.slideshare.net/BLoPP/dylanwiliambors-2010.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_99">
                    <p>Wiliam, D., &amp; Leahy, S. (2015). <em>Embedding formative assessment: Practical techniques for
                            K-12 classrooms</em>. West Palm Beach, FL: Learning Sciences International.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_100">
                    <p>Wilson, L. D., &amp; Kenney, P. A. (2003). Classroom and large-scale assessment. In J.
                        Kilpatrick, W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A research companion to Principles and
                            Standards for School Mathematics</em> (pp. 53&#8211;67). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec4">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 4</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_101">
                    <p>Bray, W. S. (2009). The power of choice. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 16</em>(3),
                        178&#8211;184.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_102">
                    <p>Cassone, J. D. (2009). Differentiating mathematics by using task difficulty. In D. Y. White &amp;
                        J. S. Spitzer (Eds.), <em>Mathematics for every student: Responding to diversity, grades
                            Pre-K&#8211;5</em> (pp. 89&#8211;98). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of
                        Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_103">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_104">
                    <p>Gilbert, M. C., &amp; Musu, L. E. (2008). Using TARGETTS to create learning environments that
                        support mathematical understanding and adaptive motivation. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics</em>, <em>15</em>(3), 138&#8211;143.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_105">
                    <p><span id="pager4" class="pagebreak" title="R-4" />Kingore, B. (2006, Winter). Tiered instruction:
                        Beginning the process. <em>Teaching for High Potential</em>, 5&#8211;6.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_106">
                    <p>Murray, M., &amp; Jorgensen, J. (2007). <em>The differentiated math classroom: A guide for
                            teachers</em>, <em>K&#8211;8.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_107">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics.</em> Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_108">
                    <p>Nebesniak, A. L., &amp; Heaton, R. M. (2010). Student confidence &amp; student involvement.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 16</em>(2), 97&#8211;103.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_109">
                    <p>Rasmussen, C., Yackel, E., &amp; King, K. (2003). Social and sociomathematical norms in the
                        mathematics classroom. In H. L. Schoen &amp; R. I. Charles (Eds.), <em>Teaching mathematics
                            through problem solving: Grades 6&#8211;12</em> (pp. 143&#8211;154). Reston, VA: National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_110">
                    <p>Skemp, R. (1978). Relational understanding and instrumental understanding. <em>Arithmetic
                            Teacher, 26</em>(3), 9&#8211;15.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_111">
                    <p>Small, M. (2012). <em>Good questions: Great ways to differentiate mathematics instruction</em>.
                        Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_112">
                    <p>Sullivan, P., &amp; Lilburn, P. (2002). <em>Good questions for math teaching: Why ask them and
                            what to ask, K&#8211;6</em>. Sausalito, CA: Math Solutions.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_113">
                    <p>Sousa, D., &amp; Tomlinson, C. (2011). <em>Differentiation and the brain: How neuroscience
                            supports the learner-friendly classroom.</em> Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_114">
                    <p>Tomlinson, C. (1999). Mapping a route towards differentiated instruction. <em>Educational
                            Leadership, 57</em>(1), 12&#8211;16.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_115">
                    <p>Tomlinson, C. (2003). <em>Fulfilling the promise of the differentiated classroom: Strategies and
                            tools for responsive teaching</em>. Alexandria. VA: Association of Supervision and
                        Curriculum Development.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec5">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 5</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_116">
                    <p>Aguirre, J. M., &amp; del Rosario Zavala, M. (2013). Making culturally responsive mathematics
                        teaching explicit: a lesson analysis tool. <em>Pedagogies: An International Journal, 8</em>(2),
                        163&#8211;190.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_117">
                    <p>Annie E. Casey Foundation. (2014). <em>Kids count: 2014 data book.</em> Baltimore, MD: Author.
                        Retrieved May 17, 2016 from
                        http://www.aecf.org/m/resourcedoc/aecf-2014kidscountdatabook-2014.pdf.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_118">
                    <p>Averill, R., Anderson, D., Easton, H., Te Maro, P., Smith, D., &amp; Hynds, A. (2009). Culturally
                        responsive teaching of mathematics: Three models from linked studies. <em>Journal for Research
                            in Mathematics Education, 40</em>(2), 157&#8211;186.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_119">
                    <p>Baker, S., Lesaux, N., Jayanthi, M., Dimino, J., Proctor, C. P., Morris, J., Gersten, R.,
                        Haymond, K., Kieffer, M. J., Linan-Thompson, S., &amp; Newman-Gonchar, R. (2014). <em>Teaching
                            academic content and literacy to English learners in elementary and middle school</em> (NCEE
                        2014-4012). Washington, DC: National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance
                        (NCEE), Institute of Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education. Retrieved from the NCEE
                        website: http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/wwc/publications_reviews.aspx.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_120">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2008, April). Promoting &#8220;relational equity&#8221; and high mathematics
                        achievement through an innovative mixed ability approach. <em>British Educational Research
                            Journal</em>, 34, 167&#8211;194.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_121">
                    <p>Boaler, J., &amp; Staples, M. E. (2014). &#8220;Creating mathematical futures through an
                        equitable teaching approach: The case of Railside School. In N. S. Nasir, C. Cabano, B. Shreve,
                        E. Woodbury, &amp; N. Louie (Eds.), <em>Mathematics for equity: A framework for successful
                            practice.</em> New York: Teachers College Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_122">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_123">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2011). <em>Application of Common Core State Standards
                            for English language learners</em>. Washington, DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_124">
                    <p>Celedon-Pattichis, S. (2009). What does that mean? Drawing on Latino and Latina students&#8217;
                        language and culture to make mathematical meaning. In M. W. Ellis (Ed.), <em>Responding to
                            diversity: Grades 6&#8211;8</em> (pp. 59&#8211;74). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers
                        of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_125">
                    <p>Celedon-Pattichis, S., &amp; Ramirez, N. G. (2012). <em>Beyond good teaching: Advancing
                            mathematics education for ELLs</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_126">
                    <p>Chval, K. B., &amp; Pinnow, R. (2010). Preservice teachers&#8217; assumptions about Latino/a
                        English language learners. <em>Journal of Teaching for Excellence and Equity in Mathemaitcs,
                            2</em>(1), 6&#8211;12.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_127">
                    <p>Cirillo, M., Steele, M., Otten, S., Herbel Eisenmann, B. A., McAneny, K., &amp; Riser, J. Q.
                        (2014). Teacher discourse moves: Supporting productive and powerful discourse. In K. Karp &amp;
                        A. Roth McDuffie (Eds.), <em>Annual perspectives in mathematics education 2014: Using research
                            to improve instruction</em> (pp. 141&#8211;150). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_128">
                    <p>Choppin, J. (2014). Situating expansions of students&#8217; explanations in discourse contexts.
                        In K. Karp &amp; A. Roth McDuffie (Eds.), <em>Annual perspectives in mathematics education 2014:
                            Using research to improve instruction</em> (pp. 119&#8211;128) Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_129">
                    <p>Chao, T., Murray, E., &amp; Gutierrez, R. (2014). <em>NCTM research brief: What are classroom
                            practices that support equity-based mathematics teaching?</em> Retrieved from
                        http://www.nctm.org/Research-and-Advocacy/research-brief-and-clips/Classroom-Practices-That-Support-Equity-Based-Mathematics-Teaching/.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_130">
                    <p>Cobb, P., Gresalfi, M., &amp; Hodge, L. (2009). An interpretative scheme for analyzing the
                        identities that students develop in mathematics classrooms. <em>Journal for Research in
                            Mathematics Education, 40</em>(1), 40&#8211;68.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_131">
                    <p>Cummins, J. (1994). Primary language instruction and the education of language minority students.
                        In C. F. Leyba (Ed.), <em>Schooling and language minority students: A theoretical framework</em>
                        (pp. 3&#8211;46). Los Angeles: California State University, National Evaluation, Dissemination
                        and Assessment Center.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_132">
                    <p>Drake, C., Land, T. J., Bartell, T. G., Aguirre, J. M., Foote, M. Q., McDuffie, A. R., &amp;
                        Turner, E. E. (2015). Three strategies for opening curriculum spaces. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 21</em>(6), 346&#8211;353.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_133">
                    <p>Dunleavy, T. K. (2015). Delegating mathematical authority as a means to strive toward equity.
                        <em>Journal of Urban Mathematics Education, 8</em>(1), 62&#8211;82.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_134">
                    <p>Echevarria, J., Vogt, M. E., &amp; Short, D. (2008). <em>Making content comprehensible for
                            English learners: The SIOP model</em> (3rd ed.). Boston, MA: Allyn &amp; Bacon.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_135">
                    <p>Echevarria, J. J., Vogt, M. J., &amp; Short, D. J. (2012). <em>Making content comprehensible for
                            English Learners: The SIOP model</em> (4th Ed.). New York: Pearson.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_136">
                    <p>Fernandez, A., Anhalt, C., &amp; Civil, M. (2009). Mathematical interviews to assess Latino
                        students. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 16</em>(3), 162&#8211;169.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_137">
                    <p>Garrison, L. (1997). Making the NCTM&#8217;s Standards work for emergent English speakers.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 4</em>(3), 132&#8211;138.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_138">
                    <p><span id="pager5" class="pagebreak" title="R-5" />Gomez, C. L. (2010). Teaching with cognates.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 16</em>(8), 470&#8211;474.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_139">
                    <p>Gresalfi, M. S., &amp; Cobb, P. (2006). Cultivating students&#8217; discipline-specific
                        dispositions as a critical goal for pedagogy and equity. <em>Pedagogies: An International
                            Journal, 1</em>(1), 49&#8211;57.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_140">
                    <p>Gutierrez, R. (2015). HOLA: Hunt for opportunities&#8211;learn&#8211;act. <em>Mathematics
                            Teacher, 109</em>(4), 270&#8211;277.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_141">
                    <p>Gutierrez, R. (2009). Embracing the inherent tensions in teaching mathematics from an equity
                        stance<em>. Democracy and Education, 18</em>(3), 9&#8211;16.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_142">
                    <p>Haas, E., &amp; Gort, M. (2009). Demanding more: Legal standards and best practices for English
                        language learners. <em>Bilingual Research Journal, 32</em>, 115&#8211;135.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_143">
                    <p>Janzen, J. (2008). Teaching English language learners in the content areas. <em>Review of
                            Educational Research, 78</em>(4), 1010&#8211;1038.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_144">
                    <p>Kena, G., Musu-Gillette, L., Robinson, J., Wang, X., Rathbun, A., Zhang, J., Wilkinson-Flicker,
                        S., Barmer, A., and Dunlop Velez, E. (2015). <em>The Condition of Education 2015</em> (NCES
                        2015-144). U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics. Washington,
                        DC. Retrieved May 17, 2016 from http://nces.ed.gov/pubsearch.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_145">
                    <p>Kersaint, G., Thompson, D. R., &amp; Petkova, M. (2009). <em>Teaching mathematics to English
                            language learners</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_146">
                    <p>Khisty, L. L. (1997). Making mathematics accessible to Latino students: Rethinking instructional
                        practice. In M. Kenney &amp; J. Trentacosta (Eds.), <em>Multicultural and gender equity in the
                            mathematics classroom: The gift of diversity</em> (pp. 92&#8211;101). Reston, VA: National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_147">
                    <p>Kisker, E. E., Lipka, J., Adams, B. L., Rickard, A., Andrew-Ihrke, D., Yanez, E. E., &amp;
                        Millard, A. (2012). The potential of a culturally based supplemental mathematics curriculum to
                        improve the mathematics performance of Alaska native and other students. <em>Journal for
                            Research in Mathematics Education, 43</em>(1), 75&#8211;113.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_148">
                    <p>Livers, S. D., &amp; Bay-Williams, J. M. (2014). Timing vocabulary support: Constructing (not
                        Obstructing) Meaning. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 10</em>(3), 153&#8211;159.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_149">
                    <p>Mathis, S. B. (1986). <em>The hundred penny box</em>. New York, NY: Puffin Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_150">
                    <p>Maldonado, L. A., Turner, E. E., Dominguez, H., &amp; Empson, S. B. (2009). English language
                        learning from, and contributing to, mathematical discussions. In D. Y. White &amp; J. S. Spitzer
                        (Eds.), <em>Responding to diversity: Grades pre-K-5</em> (pp. 7&#8211;22). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_151">
                    <p>Moll, L. C., Amanti, C., Neff, D., &amp; Gonzalez, N. (1992). Funds of knowledge for teaching:
                        Using a qualitative approach to connect homes and classrooms. <em>Qualitative Issues in
                            Educational Research, 31</em>(2), 132-141.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_152">
                    <p>Moschkovich, J. (2009). <em>NCTM research brief: Using two languages when learning mathematics:
                            How can research help us understand mathematics learners who use two languages?</em> Reston,
                        VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_153">
                    <p>Myller, R. (1991). <em>How big is a foot?</em> South Holland, IL: Yearling Books. National Center
                        for Educational Statistics. (2014). <em>NAEP questions tool</em>. Retrieved from
                        http://nces.ed.gov/nationsreportcard/itmrlsx/landing.aspx.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_154">
                    <p>NCTM (2014). <em>Access and Equity in Mathematics Education: A Position of the National Council
                            of Teachers of Mathematics</em>. Retrieved May 27, 2016 from
                        http://www.nctm.org/uploadedFiles/Standards_and_Positions/Position_Statements/Access_and_Equity.pdf.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_155">
                    <p>Nasir, N. S., Cabana, C., Shreve, B., Woodbury, E., &amp; Louie, N. (Eds.) <em>Mathematics for
                            Equity: A Framework for Successful Practice.</em> New York: Teachers College Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_156">
                    <p>National Research Council. (2001). <em>Adding it up: Helping children learn mathematics.</em> J.
                        Kilpatrick, J. Swafford, &amp; B. Findell (Eds.).Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_157">
                    <p>Neumann, M. D. (2005). Freedom quilts: Mathematics on the Underground Railroad. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 11</em>(6), 316&#8211;321.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_158">
                    <p>Perkins, I., &amp; Flores, A. (2002). Mathematical notations and procedures of recent immigrant
                        students. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 7</em>(6), 346&#8211;351.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_159">
                    <p>Robinson, J. P. (2010). The effects of test translation on young English learners&#8217;
                        mathematics performance. <em>Educational Researcher, 39</em>(8), 582&#8211;590.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_160">
                    <p>Secada, W. G. (1983). <em>The educational background of limited-English proficient students:
                            Implications for the arithmetic classroom.</em> Arlington Heights, IL: Bilingual Education
                        Service Center. (ERIC Document Reproduction Service No. ED 237318)</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_161">
                    <p>Setati, M. (2005). Teaching mathematics in a primary multilingual classroom. <em>Journal for
                            Research in Mathematics Education, 36</em>(5), 447&#8211;466.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_162">
                    <p>Shein, P. P. (2012). Seeing with two eyes: A teacher&#8217;s use of gestures in questioning and
                        revoicing to engage English language learners in the repair of mathematical errors. <em>Journal
                            for Research in Mathematics Education</em>, <em>43</em>(2), 182&#8211;222.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_163">
                    <p>Simic-Muller, K. (2015). Social justice and proportional reasoning. <em>Mathematics teaching in
                            the middle school, 21</em>(3), 162&#8211;168.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_164">
                    <p>Tomaz, V. S., &amp; David, M. M. (2015). How students&#8217; everyday situations modify classroom
                        mathematical activity: The case of water consumption. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education, 46</em>(4), 455&#8211;496.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_165">
                    <p>Turner, E. E., Celed&#211;n-Pattichis, S., Marshall, M., &amp; Tennison, A. (2009).
                        &#8220;Fijense amorcitos, les voy a contra una historia&#8221;: The power of story to support
                        solving and discussing mathematical problems among Latino and Latina kindergarten students. In
                        D. Y. White &amp; J. S. Spitzer (Eds.), <em>Responding to diversity: Grades pre-K&#8211;5</em>
                        (pp. 23&#8211;42). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_166">
                    <p>Vollmer, G. (2000). Praise and stigma: Teachers&#8217; constructions of the typical ESL student.
                        <em>Journal of Intercultural Studies, 21</em>(1), 53&#8211;66.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_167">
                    <p>Wager, A. (2012). Incorporating out-of-school mathematics: From cultural context to embedded
                        practice. <em>Journal of Mathematics Teacher Education</em>, <em>15</em>(1), 9&#8211;23.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_168">
                    <p>Whiteford, T. (2009/2010). Is mathematics a universal language? <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics</em>, 16(5), 276&#8211;283.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_169">
                    <p>Yoon, B. (2008). Uninvited guests: The influence of teachers&#8217; roles and pedagogies on the
                        positioning of English language learners in the classroom. <em>American Educational Research
                            Journal, 45,</em> 495&#8211;522.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_170">
                    <p>Zike, D. (n.d.). <em>Dinah Zike&#8217;s teaching mathematics with foldables</em>. Columbus, OH:
                        Glencoe McGraw-Hill.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec6">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="pager6" class="pagebreak" title="R-6" />Chapter 6</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_171">
                    <p>Assouline, S. G., &amp; Lupkowski-Shoplik, A. (2011). <em>Developing math talent: A comprehensive
                            guide to math education for gifted students in elementary and middle school</em> (2nd
                        ed.)<em>.</em> Waco, TX: Prufrock Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_172">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J. (2011). Learning: A framework. In F. Fennell (Ed.), <em>Achieving fluency: Special
                            education and mathematics,</em> (pp. 15&#8211;58). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_173">
                    <p>Berch, D. B., &amp; Mazzocco, M. M. M. (Eds.). (2007). <em>Why is math so hard for some children?
                            The nature and origins of mathematical learning difficulties and disabilities.</em>
                        Baltimore, MD: Brookes.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_174">
                    <p>Bruner, J. S., &amp; Kenney, H. J. (1965). Representation and mathematics learning.
                        <em>Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development,</em> 30(1), 50&#8211;59.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_175">
                    <p>Bush, S., Karp, K., &amp; Nadler, J. (2015). Artist? Mathematician? Developing both enhances
                        learning! <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 22</em>(2), 61&#8211;63.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_176">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_177">
                    <p>Center for Applied Special Technology (CAST) (n.d.). Retrieved October 1, 2016 from
                        http://www.cast.org</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_178">
                    <p>Flores, M., Hinton, V., &amp; Strozier, S. (2014). Teaching subtraction and multiplication with
                        regrouping using the concrete-representational-abstract sequence and strategic instruction
                        model. <em>Learning Disabilities Research and Practice, 29</em>(2), 75&#8211;88.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_179">
                    <p>Dobbins, A., Gagnon, J. C., &amp; Ulrich, T. (2014). Teaching geometry to students with math
                        difficulties using graduated and peer-mediated instruction in a response-to-intervention model.
                        <em>Preventing School Failure: Alternative Education for Children and Youth, 58</em>(1),
                        17&#8211;25.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_180">
                    <p>Fuchs, L. S., &amp; Fuchs, D. (2001). Principles for the prevention and intervention of
                        mathematics difficulties. <em>Learning Disabilities Research and Practice, 16</em>(2),
                        85&#8211;95.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_181">
                    <p>Gagnon, J., &amp; Maccini, P. (2001). Preparing students with disabilities for algebra.
                        <em>Teaching Exceptional Children, 34</em>(1), 8&#8211;15.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_182">
                    <p>Gavin, M. K., &amp; Sheffield, L. J. (2010). Using curriculum to develop mathematical promise in
                        the middle grades. In M. Saul, S. Assouline, &amp; L. J. Sheffield (Eds.), <em>The peak in the
                            middle: Developing mathematically gifted students in the middle grades</em>, (pp.
                        51&#8211;76). Reston, VA: NCTM, National Association of Gifted Children, &amp; National Middle
                        School Association.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_183">
                    <p>Griffin, C. C., Jossi, M. H., &amp; van Garderen, D. (2014). Effective mathematics instruction in
                        inclusive schools. In J. McLeskey, N. L. Waldron, F. Spooner, &amp; B. Algozzine (Eds.),
                        <em>Handbook of effective inclusive schools: Research and practice,</em> (pp. 261&#8211;274).
                        New York: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_184">
                    <p>Heddens, J. (1964). <em>Today&#8217;s mathematics: A guide to concepts and methods in elementary
                            school mathematics.</em> Chicago, IL: Science Research Associates.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_185">
                    <p>Hodges, T. E., Rose, T. D., &amp; Hicks, A. D. (2013). Interviews as RtI Tools. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 19</em>(1), 30&#8211;37.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_186">
                    <p>Hunter, A. E., Bush, S. B., &amp; Karp, K. (2014). Systematic interventions for teaching ratios.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 19</em>(6), 360&#8211;367.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_187">
                    <p>Johnsen, S. K., Ryser, G. R., &amp; Assouline, S. G. (2014). <em>A teacher&#8217;s guide to using
                            the Common Core State Standards with mathematically gifted and advanced learners.</em> Waco,
                        TX: Prufrock Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_188">
                    <p>Karp, K., &amp; Howell, P. (2004). Building responsibility for learning in students with special
                        needs. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 11</em>(3), 118&#8211;126.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_189">
                    <p>Lewis, K. (2014). Difference not deficit: Reconceptualizing mathematical learning disabilities.
                        <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 45</em>(3), 351&#8211;396.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_190">
                    <p>Mack, N. K. (2011). Enriching number knowledge. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 18</em>(2),
                        101&#8211;109.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_191">
                    <p>Mancl, D. B., Miller, S. P., &amp; Kennedy, M. (2012). Using the
                        concrete-representational-abstract sequence with integrated strategy instruction to teach
                        subtraction with regrouping to students with learning disabilities. <em>Learning Disabilities
                            Research and Practice,</em> 27(4), 152&#8211;166.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_192">
                    <p>Mazzocco, M. M. M., Devlin, K. T., &amp; McKenney, S. J. (2008). Is it a fact? Timed arithmetic
                        performance of children with mathematical learning disabilities (MLD) varies as a function of
                        how MLD is defined. <em>Developmental Neuropsychology</em>, 33(3), 318&#8211;344.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_193">
                    <p>McMaster, K. L., &amp; Fuchs, D. (2016). Classwide intervention using peer-assisted learning
                        strategies. In, S. Jimerson, M. Burns, &amp; A. Van Der Heyden (Eds.) <em>Handbook of response
                            to intervention</em> (pp. 253&#8211;268). New York: Springer.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_194">
                    <p>Miller, S. P., &amp; Kaffar, B. J. (2011). Developing addition with regrouping competence among
                        second graders with mathematics difficulties. <em>Investigations in Mathematics Learning,
                            4</em>(1), 24&#8211;49.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_195">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2007b). <em>Research brief: Effective
                            strategies for teaching students with difficulties in mathematics.</em> Retrieved from
                        www.nctm.org/news/content.aspx?id=8452.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_196">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2011b, July). <em>Position statement on
                            interventions.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_197">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2014). <em>Position statement on access and
                            equity in mathematics education.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_198">
                    <p>Rakow, S. (2013). Helping gifted learners soar. <em>Educational Leadership, 69</em>(5),
                        34&#8211;40.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_199">
                    <p>Read, J. (2014). Who rises to the top? <em>Peabody Reflector, 83</em>(1), 19&#8211;22.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_200">
                    <p>Reis, S., &amp; Renzulli, J. S. (2005). <em>Curriculum compacting: An easy start to
                            differentiating for high potential students.</em> Waco, TX: Prufrock Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_201">
                    <p>Rotigel, J., &amp; Fellow, S. (2005). Mathematically gifted students: How can we meet their
                        needs? <em>Gifted Child Today, 27</em>(4), 46&#8211;65.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_202">
                    <p>Sadler, P., &amp; Tai, R. (2007). The two pillars supporting college science. <em>Science,
                            317</em>(5837), 457&#8211;458.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_203">
                    <p>Sheffield, L. J. (Ed.). (1999). <em>Developing mathematically promising students</em>. Reston,
                        VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_204">
                    <p>Storeygard, J. (2010). <em>My kids can: Making math accessible to all learners K&#8211;5.</em>
                        Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_205">
                    <p>Torgesen, J. K. (2002). The prevention of reading difficulties. <em>Journal of School Psychology,
                            40</em>(1), 7&#8211;26.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_206">
                    <p>Van Tassel-Baska, J., &amp; Brown, E. F. (2007). Toward best practice An analysis of the efficacy
                        of curriculum models in gifted education. <em>Gifted Child Quarterly, 51</em>(4), 342&#8211;358.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_207">
                    <p>Ysseldyke, J. (2002). Response to &#8220;Learning disabilities: Historical perspectives.&#8221;
                        In R. Bradley, L. Danielson, &amp; D. Hallahan (Eds.), <em>Identification of learning
                            disabilities: Research to practice,</em> (pp. 89&#8211;98). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_208">
                    <p>Woodward, J. (2006). Developing automaticity in multiplication facts: Integrating strategy
                        instruction with timed practice drills. <em>Learning Disability Quarterly, 29</em>(4),
                        269&#8211;89.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec7">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="pager7" class="pagebreak" title="R-7" />Chapter 7</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_209">
                    <p>Aspiazu, G. G., Bauer, S. C., &amp; Spillett, M. D. (1998). Improving the academic performance of
                        Hispanic youth: A community education model. <em>Bilingual Research Journal, 22</em>(2),
                        1&#8211;20.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_210">
                    <p>Barnard, W. M. (2004). Parent involvement in elementary school and educational attainment.
                        <em>Children and Youth Services Review, 26</em>(1), 39&#8211;62.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_211">
                    <p>Bay-Williams, J. M., &amp; Meyer, M. R. (2003). What parents want to know about standards-based
                        mathematics curricula. <em>Principal Leadership, 3</em>(7), 54&#8211;60.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_212">
                    <p>Bay, J. M., Reys, B. J., &amp; Reys, R. E. (1999). The top 10 elements that must be in place to
                        implement standards-based mathematics curricula. <em>Phi Delta Kappan, 80</em>(7),
                        503&#8211;506.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_213">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2009). <em>What&#8217;s math got to do with it? How parents and teachers can help
                            children learn to love their least favorite subject.</em> New York: Penguin Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_214">
                    <p>Britt, B. A. (2015). <em>Mastering basic math skills: Games for third through fifth grade</em>.
                        Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_215">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_216">
                    <p>CCSSI. (n.d.) Myths and Facts. Accessed June 2, 2016 at
                        http://www.corestandards.org/about-the-standards/myths-vs-facts/.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_217">
                    <p>Civil, M., &amp; Men&#233;ndez, J. M. (2010). <em>NCTM research brief: Involving Latino and
                            Latina parents in their children&#8217;s mathematics education.</em> Retrieved from
                        www.nctm.org/uploadedFiles/Research_News_and_advocacy/Research/Clips_and_Briefs/Research_brief_17-civil.pdf.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_218">
                    <p>Civil, M., &amp; Planas, N. (2010). Latino/a immigrant parents&#8217; voices in mathematics
                        education. In E. L. Grigorenko &amp; R. Takanishi (Eds.), <em>Immigration, diversity, and
                            education (pp. 130&#8211;150)</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_219">
                    <p>Cooper, H. (2007). The battle over homework: <em>Common ground for administrators, teachers, and
                            parents</em> (3rd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_220">
                    <p>Else-Quest, N. M., Hyde, J. S., &amp; Hejmadi, A. (2008). Mother and child emotions during
                        mathematics homework. <em>Mathematical Thinking and Learning</em>, 10, 5&#8211;35.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_221">
                    <p>Ernst, K., &amp; Ryan, S. (2014). <em>Success from the start: Your first years teaching
                            elementary school.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_222">
                    <p>Henderson, A. T., Mapp, K. L., Jordan, C., Orozco, E., Averett, A., Donnelly, D., Buttram, J.,
                        Wood, L., Fowler, M., &amp; Myers, M. (2002). <em>A new wave of evidence: The impact of school,
                            family, and community connections on student achievement</em>. Austin, TX: Southwest
                        Education Development Laboratory.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_223">
                    <p>Hiebert, J., &amp; Grouws, D. A. (2007). The effects of classroom mathematics teaching on
                        students&#8217; learning. In F. K. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics
                            teaching and learning</em> (pp. 371&#8211;404). Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_224">
                    <p>Hildebrandt, M. E., Biglan, B., &amp; Budd, L (2013). Let&#8217;s take a road trip. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics</em>, <em>19</em>(9), 548&#8211;553.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_225">
                    <p>Jaschik, S. (2014). Evolving ACT. <em>Inside Higher Ed.</em> Accessed June 2, 2016 at
                        https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2014/06/06/act-unveils-changes-reporting-and-some-parts-its-test.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_226">
                    <p>Kliman, M. (1999). Beyond helping with homework: Parents and children doing mathematics at home.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 6</em>(3), 140&#8211;146.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_227">
                    <p>Knapp, A. K., Jefferson, V M., &amp; Landers, R. (2013). Learning together. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics</em>, <em>19</em>(7), 432&#8211;439.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_228">
                    <p>Lee, J., &amp; Bowen, N. K. (2006). Parent involvement, cultural capital, and the achievement gap
                        among elementary school children. <em>American Educational Research Journal, 43</em>(2),
                        193&#8211;218.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_229">
                    <p>Legnard, D., &amp; Austin, S. (2014). The math promise: Celebrating at home and school.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, <em>21</em>(3), 178&#8211;184.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_230">
                    <p>McNeil, N. M., Fyfe, E. R., Petersen, L. A., Dunwiddie, A. E., &amp; Brletic-Shipley, H. (2011).
                        Benefits of practicing 4 = 2 + 2: Nontraditional problem formats facilitate children&#8217;s
                        understanding of mathematical equivalence. <em>Child Development, 82</em>(5), 1620&#8211;1633.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_231">
                    <p>Meyer, M., &amp; Arbaugh, F. (2008). Professional development for administrators: What they need
                        to know to support curriculum adoption and implementation. In M. Meyer, C. Langrall, F. Arbaugh,
                        D. Webb, &amp; M. Hoover (Eds.), <em>A decade of middle school mathematics curriculum
                            implementation: Lessons learned from the Show-Me Project</em> (pp. 201&#8211;210).
                        Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_232">
                    <p>Mistretta, R. M. (2013). &#8220;We <em>do</em> care,&#8221; say parents. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics</em>, <em>19</em>(9), 572&#8211;580.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_233">
                    <p>Patall, E. A., Cooper, H., &amp; Robinson, J. C. (2008). Parent involvement in homework: A
                        research synthesis. <em>Review of Educational Research, 78</em>(4), 1039&#8211;1101.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_234">
                    <p>Peterson&#8217;s. (2015). <em>A Brief History of the SAT and How It Changes</em>. Accessed June
                        2, 2016 https://www.petersons.com/collegesearch/sat-scores-changes-test.aspx.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_235">
                    <p>Rodr&#237;guez-Brown, F. V. (2010). Latino families: Culture and schooling. In E. G. Murillo,
                        Jr., S. A. Villenas, R. T. Galv&#225;n, J. S. Mu&#241;oz, C. Mart&#237;nez, &amp; M.
                        Machado-Casas (Eds.), <em>Handbook of Latinos and education: Theory</em> (pp. 350&#8211;360).
                        New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_236">
                    <p>Seeley, C. L. (2009). <em>Faster isn&#8217;t smarter: Messages about math, teaching, and learning
                            in the 21st century</em>. Sausalito, CA: Math Solutions.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_237">
                    <p>Whitenack, J. W., Cavey, L. O., &amp; Henney, C. (2015). <em>It&#8217;s elementary: A
                            parent&#8217;s guide to K-5 mathematics.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_238">
                    <p>Wieman, R., &amp; Arbaugh, F. (2014). Making homework more meaningful. <em>Mathematics Teaching
                            in the Middle School, 20(</em>3), 160&#8211;165.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec8">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 8</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_239">
                    <p>Baer, E. (1990). <em>This is the way we go to school.</em> New York: Scholastic.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_240">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J. (1987). <em>Children&#8217;s mathematical thinking: A developmental framework for
                            preschool, primary, and special education teachers</em>. New York: Teachers College Press.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_241">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J., Li, X., &amp; Lai, M. L. (2008). Toddlers&#8217; spontaneous attention to number.
                        <em>Mathematics Thinking and Learning, 10,</em> 1&#8211;31.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_242">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_243">
                    <p>Clements, D., Baroody, A., &amp; Sarama, J. (2013). <em>Background research on early
                            mathematics</em>. Background Research for the National Governor&#8217;s Association (NGA)
                        Center Project on Early Mathematics. Washington, DC: NGA.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_244">
                    <p>Clements, D., &amp; Sarama, J. (2014). <em>Learning and teaching early math: The learning
                            trajectories approach</em> (2nd ed.). New York: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_245">
                    <p>Dale, P. (2007). <em>Ten in the bed.</em> Somerville, MA: Candlewick Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_246">
                    <p><span id="pager8" class="pagebreak" title="R-8" />Ethridge, E. A., &amp; King, J. R. (2005).
                        Calendar math in preschool and primary classrooms: Questioning the curriculum. <em>Early
                            Childhood Education Journal, 32</em>(5), 291&#8211;296.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_247">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. T., &amp; Dolk, M. (2001). <em>Young mathematicians at work: Constructing
                            multiplication and division.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_248">
                    <p>Hamre, B. K., Downer, J. T., Kilday, C. R., &amp; McGuire, P. (2008). <em>Effective teaching
                            practices for early childhood mathematics.</em> White paper prepared for the National
                        Research Council. Washington, DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_249">
                    <p>Henkes, K. (2008). <em>Chrysanthemum</em>. New York, NY: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_250">
                    <p>Himmelman, J. (2010). <em>Ten little hot dogs</em>. Tarrytown, NY: Pinwheel Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_251">
                    <p>Howden, H. (1989). Teaching number sense. <em>Arithmetic Teacher, 36</em>(6), 6&#8211;11.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_252">
                    <p>Jordan, N. C., Kaplan, D., Locuniak, M. N., &amp; Ramineni, C. (2007). Predicting first grade
                        math achievement from developmental number sense trajectories. <em>Learning Disabilities
                            Research &amp; Practice, 22</em>(1), 36&#8211;46.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_253">
                    <p>Kaplan, R. (2000). <em>The nothing that is: A natural history of zero.</em> New York: Oxford
                        University Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_254">
                    <p>Litwin, E. (2012). <em>Pete the cat and his four groovy buttons.</em> New York: HarperCollins.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_255">
                    <p>Locuniak, M. N., &amp; Jordan, N. C. (2008). Using kindergarten number sense to predict
                        calculation fluency in second grade. <em>Journal of Learning Disabilities, 41</em>(5),
                        451&#8211;459.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_256">
                    <p>Mazzocco, M. M. M., &amp; Thompson, R. E. (2005). Kindergarten predictors of math learning
                        disability. <em>Learning Disabilities Research &amp; Practice, 20</em>(3), 142&#8211;155.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_257">
                    <p>Metzger, S. (2008). <em>We&#8217;re going on a leaf hunt.</em> New York, NY: Cartwheel Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_258">
                    <p>Murphy, S. (2003). <em>3 little firefighters.</em> New York: HarperCollins. NCTM (National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_259">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: Author.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_260">
                    <p>National Research Council Committee. (2009). <em>Mathematics learning in early childhood: Paths
                            toward excellence and equity</em>. Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_261">
                    <p>Park, J. &amp; Brannon, E. (2013). Training the approximate number system improves math
                        proficiency. <em>Psychological Science, 24</em>(10), 2013&#8211;2019.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_262">
                    <p>Slobodkina, E. (1938). <em>Caps for sale.</em> New York: Scholastic Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_263">
                    <p>Stoeke, J. M. (1999). <em>Hide and seek.</em> New York: Dutton Juvenile Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_264">
                    <p>Watts, T., Duncan, G., Siegler, R., &amp; Davis-Kean, P. (2014). What&#8217;s past is prologue:
                        Relations between early mathematics knowledge and high school achievement. <em>Educational
                            Researcher, 43</em>(7), 352&#8211;360.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_265">
                    <p>Wilson, K. (2006). <em>Moose tracks!</em> New York: Margaret K. McElderry.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_266">
                    <p>Wright, R., Martland, J., Stafford, A., &amp; Stanger, G. (2008). <em>Teaching number: Advancing
                            children&#8217;s skills and strategies</em>. London, UK: Sage.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec9">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 9</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_267">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J., Wilkins, J. L., &amp; Tiilikainen, S. H. (2003). The development of
                        children&#8217;s understanding of additive commutativity: From protoquantitive concept to
                        general concept? In A. J. Baroody &amp; A. Dowker (Eds.), <em>The development of arithmetic
                            concepts and skills</em> (pp. 127&#8211;160). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_268">
                    <p>Blote, A., Lieffering, L., &amp; Ouwehand, K. (2006). The development of many-to-one counting in
                        4-year-old children. <em>Cognitive Development, 21</em>(3), 332&#8211;348.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_269">
                    <p>Carpenter, T. P., Fennema, E., Franke, M. L., Levi, L., &amp; Empson, S. B. (2014).
                        Children&#8217;s mathematics: <em>Cognitively guided instruction</em> (2nd ed.). Portsmouth, NH:
                        Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_270">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_271">
                    <p>Christelow, E. (2004). <em>Five little monkeys play hide-and-seek.</em> New York, NY: Clarion.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_272">
                    <p>Clement, L., &amp; Bernhard, J. (2005). A problem-solving alternative to using key words.
                        Mathematics <em>Teaching in the Middle School, 10</em>(7), 360&#8211;365.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_273">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2007). Early childhood mathematics learning. In F. K. Lester,
                        Jr. (Ed.), <em>Second handbook on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp. 461&#8211;555).
                        Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_274">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2009). <em>Learning and teaching early math: The learning
                            trajectories approach</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_275">
                    <p>Crespo, S., &amp; Kyriakides, A. (2007). To draw or not to draw: Exploring children&#8217;s
                        drawings for solving mathematics problems. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(2),
                        118&#8211;125.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_276">
                    <p>Cuyler, M. (2010). <em>Guinea pigs add up.</em> New York: Walker.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_277">
                    <p>Dougherty, B., Flores, A., Louis, E., &amp; Sophian, C. (2010). <em>Developing essential
                            understanding of number and numeration for teaching mathematics in
                            prekindergarten&#8211;grade 2</em>. Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_278">
                    <p>Drake, J., &amp; Barlow, A. (2007). Assessing students&#8217; level of understanding
                        multiplication through problem writing. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(5),
                        272&#8211;277.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_279">
                    <p>Drescher, D. (2008). <em>What&#8217;s hiding in there?</em> Edinburgh, Scotland: Floris.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_280">
                    <p>Fagnant, A., &amp; Vlassis, J. (2013). Schematic representations in arithmetical problem solving:
                        Analysis of their impact on grade 4 students. <em>Education Studies in Mathematics, 84,</em>
                        149&#8211;168. doi:10.1007/s10649-013-9476-4.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_281">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. T., &amp; Dolk, M. (2001). <em>Young mathematicians at work: Constructing number
                            sense, addition, and subtraction.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_282">
                    <p>Fuchs, L. S., Fuchs, D., Prentice, K., Hamlett, C. L., Finelli, R., &amp; Courey, S. J. (2004).
                        Enhancing mathematical problem solving among third-grade students with schema-based instruction.
                        <em>Journal of Educational Psychology, 96</em>(4), 635&#8211;647.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_283">
                    <p>Gutstein, E., &amp; Romberg, T. A. (1995). Teaching children to add and subtract. <em>Journal of
                            Mathematical Behavior</em>, 14, 283&#8211;324.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_284">
                    <p>Huinker, D. (1994, April). Multi-step word problems: A strategy for empowering students.
                        <em>Presented at the annual meeting of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics</em>,
                        Indianapolis, IN.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_285">
                    <p>Knuth, E. J., Stephens, A. C., McNeil, N. M., &amp; Alibali, M. W. (2006). Does understanding the
                        equal sign matter? Evidence from solving equations. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education, 37</em>(4), 297&#8211;312.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_286">
                    <p>McElligott, M. (2007). <em>Bean thirteen.</em> New York: Putnam Juvenile.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_287">
                    <p>Murata, A. (2008). Mathematics teaching and learning as a mediating process: The case of tape
                        diagrams. <em>Mathematical Thinking and Learning, 10,</em> 374&#8211;406.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_288">
                    <p>National Research Council Committee. (2009). <em>Mathematics learning in early childhood: Paths
                            toward excellence and equity.</em> Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_289">
                    <p>Overdeck, L. (2013). <em>Bedtime math.</em> New York: Feiwel and Friends.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_290">
                    <p>Pinczes, E. (1999). <em>One hundred hungry ants.</em> New York, NY: Houghton Mifflin.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_291">
                    <p><span id="pager9" class="pagebreak" title="R-9" />Pinczes, E. (2002). <em>Remainder of one.</em>
                        New York, NY: Houghton Mifflin.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_292">
                    <p>Roberts, S. (2003). Snack math: Young children explore division. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 9</em>(5), 258&#8211;261.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_293">
                    <p>Ruschak, L., &amp; Carter, D. (1990). <em>Snack attack: A tasty pop-up book</em>. New York, NY:
                        Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_294">
                    <p>Schifter, D., Bastable, V., &amp; Russell, S. J. (1999). <em>Making meaning for operations:
                            Facilitator&#8217;s guide</em> (Developing mathematical ideas: Number and operations, part
                        2). Parsippany, NJ: Dale Seymour.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_295">
                    <p>Schifter, D. (2001). Learning to see the invisible: What skills and knowledge are needed to
                        engage with students&#8217; mathematical ideas? In T. Wood, B. S. Nelson, and J. Warfield
                        (Eds.), <em>Beyond classical pedagogy: Teaching elementary school mathematics</em> (pp.
                        109&#8211;134). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_296">
                    <p>Schwartz, S. (2013). <em>Implementing the Common Core State Standards through mathematical
                            problem solving kindergarten&#8211;grade 2.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_297">
                    <p>Sowder, L. (1988). Children&#8217;s solutions of story problems<em>. Journal of Mathematical
                            Behavior, 7</em>(3), 227&#8211;238.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_298">
                    <p>Sulentic-Dowell, M. M., Beal, G., &amp; Capraro, R. (2006). How do literacy experiences affect
                        the teaching propensities of elementary pre-service teachers? <em>Journal of Reading Psychology,
                            27</em>(2&#8211;3), 235&#8211;255.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_299">
                    <p>Shield, M. &amp; Swinson, K. (1996). The link sheet: A communication aid for clarifying and
                        developing mathematical ideas and processes. In P. C. Elliott &amp; M. J. Kenney (Eds.)
                        <em>Communication in Mathematics, K-12 and Beyond.</em> (pp. 35-39). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_300">
                    <p>Verschaffel, L., Greer, B., &amp; De Corte, E. (2007). Whole number concepts and operations. In
                        F. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp.
                        557&#8211;628). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_301">
                    <p>Whitin, P., &amp; Whitin, D. (2008). Learning to solve problems in the primary grades.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(7), 426&#8211;432.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_302">
                    <p>Xin, Y. P., Jitendra, A. K., &amp; Deatline-Buchman, A. D. (2005). Effects of mathematical word
                        problem-solving instruction on middle school students with learning problems. <em>Journal of
                            Special Education, 39(</em>3), 181&#8211;192.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec10">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 10</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_303">
                    <p>Anno, M. (1982). <em>Anno&#8217;s Counting House.</em> New York: Philomel Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_304">
                    <p>Ashcraft, M. H., &amp; Christy, K. S. (1995). The frequency of arithmetic facts in elementary
                        texts: Addition and multiplication in grades 1&#8211;6. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education</em>, 26, 396&#8211;421.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_305">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J. (1985). Mastery of the basic number combinations: Internalization of relationships
                        or facts? <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 16</em>(2), 83&#8211;98.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_306">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J. (2003). The development of adaptive expertise and flexibility: The integration of
                        conceptual and procedural knowledge. In A. J. Baroody &amp; A. Dowker (Eds.), <em>The
                            development of arithmetic concepts and skills: Constructing adaptive expertise</em> (pp.
                        1&#8211;34). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_307">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J. (2006). Why children have difficulties mastering the basic number combinations and
                        how to help them. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 13</em>(1), 22&#8211;31.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_308">
                    <p>Baroody, A. J., Bajwa, N. P., &amp; Eiland, M. (2009). Why can&#8217;t Johnny remember the basic
                        facts? <em>Developmental Disabilities Research Reviews, 15</em>, 69&#8211;79.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_309">
                    <p>Bay-Williams, J. M., &amp; Kling, G. (2014). Enriching addition and subtraction fact mastery
                        through games. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 21</em>(4), 239&#8211;247.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_310">
                    <p>Bley, N. S., &amp; Thornton, C. A. (1995). <em>Teaching mathematics to students with learning
                            disabilities</em> (3rd ed.). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_311">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2012, July 3). Timed tests and the development of math anxiety. <em>Education
                            Week</em>. Retrieved from http://www.edweek.org/ew/articles/2012/07/03/36boaler.h31.html.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_312">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2014). Research suggests that timed tests cause math anxiety. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 20</em>(8), 469&#8211;474.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_313">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2015a, January 28). <em>Fluency without fear.</em> Retrieved from
                        https://www.youcubed.org/fluency-without-fear/.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_314">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2015b). <em>What&#8217;s math got to do with it?</em> New York: Penguin.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_315">
                    <p>Boaler, J. (2016). <em>Mathematical mindsets.</em> San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_316">
                    <p>Brownell, W., &amp; Chazal, C. (1935). The effects of premature drill in third grade arithmetic.
                        <em>Journal of Educational Research, 29</em>(1), 17 28.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_317">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_318">
                    <p>Forbringer, L., &amp; Fahsl, A. J. (2010). Differentiating practice to help students master basic
                        facts. In D. Y. White &amp; J. S. Spitzer (Eds.), <em>Responding to diversity: Grades
                            pre-K&#8211;5</em> (pp. 7&#8211;22). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of
                        Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_319">
                    <p>Fuson, K. C. (1984). More complexities in subtraction. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education, 15</em>(3), 214&#8211;225.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_320">
                    <p>Fuson, K. C., &amp; Kwon, Y. (1992). Korean children&#8217;s single-digit addition and
                        subtraction: Numbers structured by ten. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education,
                            23</em>(2), 148&#8211;165.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_321">
                    <p>Gravemeijer, K., &amp; van Galen, F. (2003). Facts and algorithms as products of students&#8217;
                        own mathematical activity. In J. Kilpatrick, W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A
                            research companion to Principles and Standards for School Mathematics</em> (pp.
                        114&#8211;122). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_322">
                    <p>Godfrey, C. &amp; Stone, J. (2013). Mastering fact fluency: Are they game? <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 20</em>(2), 96&#8211;101.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_323">
                    <p>Gray, E., &amp; Tall, D. (1994). Duality, ambiguity, and flexibility: A &#8220;proceptual&#8221;
                        view of simple arithmetic. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 25</em>(2),
                        116&#8211;140.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_324">
                    <p>Hamm, D. (1994). <em>How many feet in the bed?</em> New York, NY: Simon and Schuster.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_325">
                    <p>Heege, H. T. (1985). The acquisition of basic multiplication skills. <em>Educational Studies in
                            Mathematics, 16</em>(4): 375&#8211;388.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_326">
                    <p>Henry, V. J., &amp; Brown, R. S. (2008). First-grade basic facts: An investigation into teaching
                        and learning of an accelerated, highdemand memorization standard. <em>Journal for Research in
                            Mathematics Education, 39</em>(2), 153&#8211;183.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_327">
                    <p>Hong, L. (1993). <em>Two of everything.</em> Morton Grove, IL: Albert Whitman &amp; Company.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_328">
                    <p>Kamii, C. K., &amp; Anderson, C. (2003). Multiplication games: How we made and used them.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 10</em>(3), 135&#8211;141.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_329">
                    <p>Kling, G. (2011). Fluency with basic addition. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 18</em>(2),
                        80&#8211;88.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_330">
                    <p>Kling, G., &amp; Bay-Williams, J. M. (2014). Assessing basic fact fluency. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 20</em>(8), 488&#8211;497.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_331">
                    <p>Kubler, A. (2001). <em>There were ten in the bed</em>. Swindon, UK: Child&#8217;s Play.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_332">
                    <p>Lewis, T. (2005). Facts + fun = fluency. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 12</em>(1),
                        8&#8211;11.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_333">
                    <p><span id="pager10" class="pagebreak" title="R-10" />Mazzocco, M. M. M., Devlin, K. T., &amp;
                        McKenney, S. J. (2008). Is it a fact? Timed arithmetic performance of children with mathematical
                        learning disabilities (MLD) varies as a function of how MLD is defined. <em>Developmental
                            Neuropsychology</em>, 33(3), 318&#8211;344.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_334">
                    <p>National Research Council. (2001). Adding it up: <em>Helping children learn mathematics</em>. J.
                        Kilpatrick, J. Swafford, &amp; B. Findell (Eds.).Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_335">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_336">
                    <p>Ramirez, G., Gunderson, E. A., Levine, S. C., &amp; Beilock, S. L. (2013). Math anxiety, working
                        memory, and math achievement in early elementary school. <em>Journal of Cognition and
                            Development, 14</em>(2), 187&#8211;202.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_337">
                    <p>Rathmell, E. C., Leutzinger, L. P., &amp; Gabriele, A. (2000). <em>Thinking with numbers</em>.
                        Cedar Falls, IA: Thinking with Numbers.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_338">
                    <p>Richardson, K. (2002). <em>Assessing math concepts: Hiding assessment.</em> Bellingham, WA:
                        Mathematical Perspectives.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_339">
                    <p>Sarama, J., &amp; Clements, D. H. (2009). <em>Early childhood mathematics education research:
                            Learning trajectories for young children</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_340">
                    <p>Shoecraft, P. (1982). Bowl-A-Fact: A game for reviewing the number facts. <em>Arithmetic Teacher,
                            29</em>(8), 24&#8211;25.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_341">
                    <p>Toft, K. M., &amp; Sheather, A. (1998). <em>One less fish.</em> Watertown, MA: Charlesbridge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_342">
                    <p>Verschaffel, L., Greer, B., &amp; De Corte, E. (2007). Whole number concepts and operations. In
                        F. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp.
                        557&#8211;628). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_343">
                    <p>Wallace, A. H., &amp; Gurganus, S. P. (2005). Teaching for mastery of multiplication.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 12</em>(1), 26&#8211;33.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_344">
                    <p>Watanabe, T. (2006). The teaching and learning of fractions: A Japanese perspective. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 12</em>(7), 368&#8211;374.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec11">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 11</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_345">
                    <p>Burris, J. (2013). Virtual place value. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 20</em>(4),
                        228&#8211;236.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_346">
                    <p>Byrge, L., Smith, L. B., &amp; Mix, K. (2013). Beginnings of place value: How preschoolers write
                        three-digit numbers. <em>Child Development 85</em>(2), 437&#8211;443.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_347">
                    <p>Cuyler, M. (2005). <em>100th day worries.</em> New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_348">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_349">
                    <p>Dougherty, B., Flores, A., Louis, E., &amp; Sophian, C. (2010). <em>Developing essential
                            understanding of number and numeration for teaching mathematics in
                            prekindergarten&#8211;grade 2</em>. Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_350">
                    <p>Fuson, K. C. (2006). Research on whole number addition and subtraction. In D. Grouws (Ed.),
                        <em>Handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp. 243&#8211;275).
                        Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_351">
                    <p>Kamii, C. K. (1985). <em>Young children reinvent arithmetic.</em> New York: Teachers College
                        Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_352">
                    <p>Labinowicz, E. (1985). <em>Learning from children: New beginnings for teaching numerical
                            thinking.</em> Menlo Park, CA: AWL Supplemental.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_353">
                    <p>Murphy, S. (2004). <em>Earth day, hooray!</em> New York: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_354">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics.</em> Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_355">
                    <p>Ross, S. H. (1986). <em>The development of children&#8217;s place-value Numeration concepts in
                            grades two through five.</em> Presented at the annual meeting of the American Educational
                        Research Association, San Francisco, CA.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_356">
                    <p>Ross, S. H. (1989). Parts, wholes, and place value: A developmental perspective. <em>Arithmetic
                            Teacher, 36</em>(6), 47&#8211;51.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_357">
                    <p>Ross, S. R. (2002). Place value: Problem solving and written assessment. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 8</em>(7), 419&#8211;423.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_358">
                    <p>Thaler, M. (2014) <em>The 100th day of school from the black lagoon.</em> New York: Scholastic.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_359">
                    <p>Wright, R., Martland, J., &amp; Stafford, A. (2008). <em>Early numeracy: Assessment for teaching
                            and intervention.</em> London: Sage.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec12">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 12</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_360">
                    <p>Barker, L. (2009). Ten is the magic number! <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 15</em>(6),
                        336&#8211;345.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_361">
                    <p>Bowen, A. (2006). <em>The great math tattle battle</em>. Park Ridge, IL: Albert Whitman.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_362">
                    <p>Caldwell, J., Kobett, B., &amp; Karp, K. (2014). <em>Essential understanding of addition and
                            subtraction in practice, grades K&#8211;2.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_363">
                    <p>Carpenter, T. P., Franke, M. L., Jacobs, V. R., Fennema, E., &amp; Empson, S. B. (1998). A
                        longitudinal study of invention and understanding in children&#8217;s multidigit addition and
                        subtraction. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, 29</em>(1), 3&#8211;20.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_364">
                    <p>Coates, G. D., &amp; Thompson, V. (2003). <em>Family Math II: Achieving success in
                            mathematics.</em> Berkeley, CA: EQUALS Lawrence Hall of Science.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_365">
                    <p>Cobb, P., &amp; Merkel, G. (1989). Thinking strategies: Teaching arithmetic through problem
                        solving. In P. Trafton (Ed.), <em>New directions for elementary school mathematics: 1989
                            yearbook</em> (pp. 70&#8211;81). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_366">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_367">
                    <p>Fleischman, H. L., Hopstock, P. J., Pelczar, M. P., &amp; Shelley, B. E. (2010). <em>Highlights
                            from PISA 2009: Performance of U.S. 15-yearold students in reading, mathematics, and science
                            literacy in an international context</em> (NCES 2011&#8211;004). Washington, DC: U.S.
                        Government Printing Office.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_368">
                    <p>Fuson, K. C. (2003). Developing mathematical power in whole number operations. In J. Kilpatrick,
                        W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A research companion to Principles and Standards in
                            School Mathematics</em> (pp. 68&#8211;94). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of
                        Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_369">
                    <p>Gravemeijer, K., &amp; van Galen, F. (2003). Facts and algorithms as products of students&#8217;
                        own mathematical activity. In J. Kilpatrick, W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A
                            research companion to Principles and Standards for School Mathematics</em> (pp.
                        114&#8211;122). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_370">
                    <p>Hiebert, J., &amp; Grouws, D. A. (2007). The effects of classroom mathematics teaching on
                        students&#8217; learning. In F. K. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics
                            teaching and learning</em> (pp. 371&#8211;404). Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_371">
                    <p><span id="pager11" class="pagebreak" title="R-11" />Humphreys, C., &amp; Parker, R. (2015).
                        <em>Making number talks matter.</em> Portland, ME: Stenhouse Publishers.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_372">
                    <p>Kamii, C. K. (1985). Young children reinvent arithmetic. New York, NY: Teachers College Press.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_373">
                    <p>Kamii, C. K., &amp; Dominick, A. (1998). The harmful effects of algorithms in grades 1&#8211;4.
                        In L. J. Morrow (Ed.), <em>The teaching and learning of algorithms in school mathematics</em>
                        (pp. 130&#8211;140). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_374">
                    <p>Kamii, C. K., &amp; Joseph, L. (1988). Teaching place value and double-column addition.
                        <em>Arithmetic Teacher, 35</em>(6), 48&#8211;52.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_375">
                    <p>Keiser, J. M. (2010). Shifting our computational focus. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle
                            School, 16</em>(4), 216&#8211;223.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_376">
                    <p>Klein, A. S., Beishuizen, M., &amp; Treffers, A. (2002). The empty number line in Dutch second
                        grade. In J. Sowder &amp; B. Schapelle (Eds.), <em>Lessons learned from research</em> (pp.
                        41&#8211;44). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_377">
                    <p>Lynch, K., &amp; Star, J. (2014). Views of struggling students on instruction incorporating
                        multiple strategies in algebra I: An exploratory study. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education, 45</em>(1), 6&#8211;18.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_378">
                    <p>Madell, R. (1985). Children&#8217;s natural processes. <em>Arithmetic Teacher, 32</em>(7),
                        20&#8211;22.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_379">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2014). <em>Position statement on access and
                            equity in mathematics education</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_380">
                    <p>National Research Council. (2001). <em>Adding it up: Helping children learn mathematics</em>. J.
                        Kilpatrick, J. Swafford, &amp; B. Findell (Eds.). Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_381">
                    <p>Peltenburg, M., van den Heuvel-Panhuizen, M., &amp; Robitzsch, A. (2012). Special education
                        students&#8217; use of indirect addition in solving subtraction problems up to 100: A proof of
                        the didactical potential of an ignored procedure. <em>Educational Studies in Mathematics,
                            79</em>(3), 351&#8211;369.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_382">
                    <p>Perkins, I., &amp; Flores, A. (2002). Mathematical notations and procedures of recent immigrant
                        students. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 7</em>(6), 346&#8211;351.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_383">
                    <p>Reinhart, S. (2000). Never say anything a kid can say. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle
                            School, 5</em>(8), 478&#8211;483.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_384">
                    <p>Rittle-Johnson, B., Star, J. R., &amp; Durkin, K. (2010, April). Developing procedural
                        flexibility: When should multiple solution methods be introduced? <em>Paper presented at the
                            Annual Conference of the American Educational Research Association</em>, Denver, CO.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_385">
                    <p>Siegler, R. S., &amp; Booth, J. L. (2005). Development of numerical estimation: A review. In J.
                        I. D. Campbell (Ed.), <em>Handbook of mathematical cognition</em> (pp. 197&#8211;212). New York:
                        New York Psychology Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_386">
                    <p>Torbeyns, J., De Smedt, B., Ghesquiere, P., &amp; Verschaffel, L. (2009). Acquisition and use of
                        shortcut strategies by traditionally schooled children. <em>Educational Studies in
                            Mathematics</em>, 71, 1&#8211;17.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_387">
                    <p>Verschaffel, L., Greer, B., &amp; De Corte, E. (2007). Whole number concepts and operations. In
                        F. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp.
                        557&#8211;628). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_388">
                    <p>Wright, R., Martland, J., Stafford, A., &amp; Stanger, G. (2008). <em>Teaching number: Advancing
                            children&#8217;s skills and strategies</em>. London: Sage.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec13">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 13</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_389">
                    <p>Ball, D. L., &amp; Bass, H. (2003). Making mathematics reasonable in school. In J. Kilpatrick, W.
                        G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A research companion to Principles and Standards for
                            School Mathematics</em> (pp. 27&#8211;44). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of
                        Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_390">
                    <p>Bezuszka, S. J., &amp; Kenney, M. J. (2008). The three R&#8217;s: Recursive thinking, recursion,
                        and recursive formulas. In C. E. Greenes &amp; R. Rubenstein (Eds.), <em>Algebra and algebraic
                            thinking in school mathematics: 70th NCTM yearbook</em> (pp. 81&#8211;97). Reston, VA: NCTM.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_391">
                    <p>Blanton, M. L. (2008). <em>Algebra in the elementary classroom: Transforming thinking,
                            transforming practice</em>. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_392">
                    <p>Blanton, M., Levi, L., Crites, T. W., &amp; Dougherty, B. J. (2011). <em>Developing essential
                            understanding of algebraic thinking for teaching mathematics in grades 3&#8211;5. Essential
                            Understanding Series</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_393">
                    <p>Carpenter, T. P., Franke, M. L., &amp; Levi, L. (2003). <em>Thinking mathematically: Integrating
                            arithmetic and algebra in elementary school</em>. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_394">
                    <p>Carraher, D. W., &amp; Schliemann, A. D. (2007). Early algebra and algebraic reasoning. In F.
                        Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning: A project of
                            the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics</em> (Vol. II, pp. 609&#8211;705).
                        Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_395">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_396">
                    <p>Falkner, K. P., Levi, L., &amp; Carpenter, T. P. (1999). Children&#8217;s understanding of
                        equality: A foundation for algebra. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics</em>, 6(4), 232&#8211;236.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_397">
                    <p>Fisher, E., Roy, G., &amp; Reeves, C. (2013). The functionator 3000: Transforming numbers and
                        children. <em>Teaching children mathematics 29</em>(4), 254&#8211;260.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_398">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. (2007). <em>The sleepover</em>. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_399">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. T., &amp; Jacob, B. (2010). <em>Young mathematicians at work: Constructing
                            algebra</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_400">
                    <p>Harris, T. (2000). <em>Pattern fish</em>. Minneapolis, MN: Milbrook Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_401">
                    <p>Hong, L. (1993). <em>Two of everything</em>. Morton Grove, IL: Albert Whitman &amp; Company.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_402">
                    <p>Humphreys, C., &amp; Parker, R. (2015). <em>Making number talks matter.</em> Portland, ME:
                        Stenhouse Publishers.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_403">
                    <p>Kaput, J. J. (2008). What is algebra? What is algebraic reasoning? In J. J. Kaput, D. W.
                        Carraher, &amp; M. L. Blanton (Eds.), <em>Algebra in the early grades</em>. Reston, VA: National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_404">
                    <p>Kieran, C. (2007). Learning and teaching algebra at the middle school through college levels. In
                        F. K. Lester (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em>
                        (pp. 707&#8211;762). Charlotte, NC: Information Age.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_405">
                    <p>Knuth, E. J., Alibali, M. W., McNeil, N. M., Weinberg, A., &amp; Stephens, A. C. (2011). Middle
                        school students&#8217; understanding of core algebraic concepts: Equivalence &amp; variable.
                        <em>Early Algebraization</em>, 259&#8211;276.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_406">
                    <p>Knuth, E. J., Stephens, A. C., McNeil, N. M., &amp; Alibali, M. W. (2006). Does understanding the
                        equal sign matter? Evidence from solving equations. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education, 37</em>(4), 297&#8211;312.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_407">
                    <p>Kroll, V. (2005). <em>Equal shmequal</em>. Watertown, MA: Charlesbridge Publishing.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_408">
                    <p>Liu, N., &amp; Fosnot, C. (2007). <em>The Double-Decker Bus.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_409">
                    <p><span id="pager12" class="pagebreak" title="R-12" />Maida, P. (2004). Using algebra without
                        realizing it. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 9</em>(9), 484&#8211;488.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_410">
                    <p>Mann, R. L. (2004). Balancing act: The truth behind the equals sign. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 11</em>(2), 65&#8211;69.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_411">
                    <p>McNamara, J. C. (2010). Two of everything. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 17</em>(3),
                        132&#8211;136.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_412">
                    <p>McNeil, N. (2014). A change-resistance account of children&#8217;s difficulties understanding
                        mathematical equivalence. <em>Child Development Perspectives, 8</em>(1), 42-47.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_413">
                    <p>McNeil, N. M., &amp; Alibali, M. W. (2005). Knowledge change as a function of mathematics
                        experience: All contexts are not created equal. <em>Journal of Cognition and Development</em>,
                        6, 285&#8211;306.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_414">
                    <p>McNeil, N. M., Grandau, L., Knuth, E. J., Alibali, M. W., Stephens, A. C., Hattikudur, S., &amp;
                        Krill, D. E. (2006). Middle school students&#8217; understanding of the equal sign: The books
                        they read can&#8217;t help. <em>Cognition &amp; Instruction, 24</em>(3), 367&#8211;385.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_415">
                    <p>Molina, M., &amp; Ambrose, R. C. (2006). Fostering relational thinking while negotiating the
                        meaning of the equals sign. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 13</em>(2), 111&#8211;117.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_416">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: Author.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_417">
                    <p>Numeroff, L. (1985). <em>If you give a mouse a cookie</em>. New York, NY: Harper Collins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_418">
                    <p>RAND Mathematics Study Panel. (2003). <em>Mathematical proficiency for all students: Toward a
                            strategic research and development program in mathematics education</em> (Issue 1643). Santa
                        Monica, CA: Rand Corporation.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_419">
                    <p>Russell, S., Schifter, D., &amp; Bastable, V. (2011). <em>Connecting arithmetic to algebra:
                            Strategies for building algebraic thinking in the elementary grades.</em> Portsmouth, NH:
                        Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_420">
                    <p>Schifter, D. (1999). Reasoning about operations: Early algebraic thinking, grades K through 6. In
                        L. Stiff &amp; F. Curcio (Eds.), <em>Developing mathematical reasoning in grades K&#8211;12</em>
                        (pp. 62&#8211;81). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_421">
                    <p>Schifter, D., Monk, G. S., Russell, S. J., &amp; Bastable, V. (2007). Early algebra: What does
                        understanding the laws of arithmetic mean in the elementary grades? In J. Kaput, D. Carraher,
                        &amp; M. Blanton (Eds.), <em>Algebra in the early grades</em>. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_422">
                    <p>Schifter, D., Russell, S., &amp; Bastable, V. (2009). Early algebra to reach the range of
                        learners. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 16</em>(4), 230&#8211;237.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_423">
                    <p>Sharratt, N. (1996). <em>My mom and dad make me laugh.</em> Somerville, MA: Candlewick.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_424">
                    <p>Stephens, A. C., Knuth, E. J., Blanton, M. L., Isler, I., Gardiner, A. M., &amp; Marum, T.
                        (2013). Equation structure and the meaning of the equal sign: The impact of task selection in
                        eliciting elementary students&#8217; understandings. <em>The Journal of Mathematical Behavior,
                            32,</em> 173&#8211;182.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_425">
                    <p>Warren, E., &amp; Cooper, T. J. (2008). Patterns that support early algebraic thinking in
                        elementary school. In C. E. Greenes &amp; R. Rubenstein (Eds.), <em>Algebra and algebraic
                            thinking in school mathematics: 70th NCTM yearbook</em> (pp. 113&#8211;126). Reston, VA:
                        National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec14">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 14</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_426">
                    <p>Bailey, D. H., Hoard, M. K., Nugent, L., &amp; Geary, D. C. (2012). Competence with fractions
                        predicts gains in mathematics achievement. <em>Journal of Experimental Child Psychology,
                            113,</em> 447&#8211;455.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_427">
                    <p>Bay-Williams, J. M., &amp; Martinie, S. L. (2003). Thinking rationally about number in the middle
                        school. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 8</em>(6), 282&#8211;287.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_428">
                    <p>Booth, J., &amp; Siegler, R. (2008). Numerical magnitude representations influence arithmetic
                        learning. <em>Child Development, 79</em>(4), 1016&#8211;1031.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_429">
                    <p>Brown, G., &amp; Quinn, R. J. (2007). Investigating the relationship between fraction proficiency
                        and success in algebra. <em>Australian Mathematics Teacher, 63</em>(4), 8&#8211;15.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_430">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_431">
                    <p>Champion, J., &amp; Wheeler, A. (2014). Revisit pattern blocks to develop rational number sense.
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 19</em>(6), 337&#8211;343.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_432">
                    <p>Clarke, D., Roche, A., &amp; Mitchell, A. (2008). 10 practical tips for making fractions come
                        alive and make sense. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 13</em>(7), 373&#8211;380.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_433">
                    <p>Cramer, K., &amp; Henry, A. (2002). Using manipulative models to build number sense for addition
                        of fractions. In B. Litwiller (Ed.), <em>Making sense of fractions, ratios, and proportions</em>
                        (pp. 41&#8211;48). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_434">
                    <p>Cramer, K., &amp; Whitney, S. (2010). Learning rational number concepts and skills in elementary
                        school classrooms. In D. V. Lambdin &amp; F. K. Lester, Jr. (Eds.), <em>Teaching and learning
                            mathematics: Translating research for elementary school teachers</em> (pp. 15&#8211;22).
                        Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_435">
                    <p>Cramer, K., Wyberg, T., &amp; Leavitt, S. (2008). The role of representations in fraction
                        addition and subtraction. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 13</em>(8),
                        490&#8211;496.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_436">
                    <p>Cwikla, J. (2014). Can kindergartners do fractions? <em>Teaching Children Mathematics,
                            20</em>(6), 354&#8211;364.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_437">
                    <p>Ellington, A. J., &amp; Whitenack, J. W. (2010). Fractions and the funky cookie. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 16</em>(9), 532&#8211;539.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_438">
                    <p>Empson, S. (2002). Organizing diversity in early fraction thinking. In B. Litwiller (Ed.),
                        <em>Making sense of fractions, ratios, and proportions</em> (pp. 29&#8211;40). Reston, VA:
                        National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_439">
                    <p>Empson, S., &amp; Levi, L. (2011). <em>Extending children&#8217;s mathematics: Fractions and
                            decimals</em>. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_440">
                    <p>Fosnot, C. T., &amp; Dolk, M. (2001). <em>Young mathematicians at work: Constructing number
                            sense, addition, and subtraction.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_441">
                    <p>Hackenberg, A. J. (2007). Units coordination and the construction of improper fractions: A
                        revision of the splitting hypothesis. <em>The Journal of Mathematical Behavior, 26</em>(1),
                        27&#8211;47.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_442">
                    <p>Hodges, T. E., Cady, J., &amp; Collins, R. L. (2008). Fraction representation: The not-so-common
                        denominator among textbooks. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 14</em>(2),
                        78&#8211;84.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_443">
                    <p>Hutchins, P. (1986). <em>The doorbell rang</em>. New York, NY: Greenwillow Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_444">
                    <p>Lamon, S. J. (2012). <em>Teaching fractions and ratios for understanding: Essential content
                            knowledge and instructional strategies</em> (3rd ed.). New York, NY: Taylor &amp; Francis
                        Group.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_445">
                    <p>Mack, N. K. (2001). Building on informal knowledge through instruction in a complex content
                        domain: Partitioning, units, and understanding multiplication of fractions. <em>Journal for
                            Research in Mathematics Education</em>, 32, 267&#8211;295.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_446">
                    <p>Moyer-Packenham, P. S., Ulmer, L. A., &amp; Anderson, K. L. (2012). Examining pictorial models
                        and virtual manipulatives for third-grade fraction instruction. <em>Journal of Interactive
                            Online Learning, 11</em>(3), 103&#8211;120.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_447">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_448">
                    <p><span id="pager13" class="pagebreak" title="R-13" />National Mathematics Advisory Panel. (2008).
                        <em>Foundations for success</em>. Jessup, MD: U.S. Department of Education.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_449">
                    <p>Olive, J. (2002). Bridging the gap: Using interactive computer tools to build fraction schemes.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 8</em>(6), 356&#8211;61.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_450">
                    <p>Olive, J., &amp; Vomvoridi, E. (2006). Making sense of instruction on fractions when a student
                        lacks necessary fractional schemes: The case of Tim. <em>Journal of Mathematical Behavior</em>,
                        <em>25</em>(1), 18&#8211;45.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_451">
                    <p>Petit, M., Laird, R. E., &amp; Marsden, E. L. (2010). <em>A focus on fractions: Bringing research
                            to the classroom</em>. New York, NY: Taylor &amp; Francis.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_452">
                    <p>Petit, M., Laird, R. E., Marsden, E. L., &amp; Ebby, C. (2016). <em>A focus on fractions:
                            Bringing research to the classroom</em> (2nd ed.). New York: Taylor &amp; Francis.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_453">
                    <p>Post, T. R., Wachsmuth, I., Lesh, R. A., &amp; Behr, M. J. (1985). Order and equivalence of
                        rational numbers: A cognitive analysis. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics Education,
                            16</em>(1), 18&#8211;36.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_454">
                    <p>Pothier, Y., &amp; Sawada, D. (1990). Partitioning: An approach to fractions. <em>Arithmetic
                            Teacher, 38</em>(4), 12&#8211;17.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_455">
                    <p>Roddick, C., &amp; Silvas-Centeno, C. (2007). Developing understanding of fractions through
                        pattern blocks and fair trade. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(3), 140&#8211;145.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_456">
                    <p>Russell, S. J., &amp; Economopoulos, K. (2008<em>). Investigations in number, data, and
                            space</em>. New York: Pearson.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_457">
                    <p>Siebert, D., &amp; Gaskin, N. (2006). Creating, naming, and justifying fractions. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 12</em>(8), 394&#8211;400.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_458">
                    <p>Siegler, R. S., Carpenter, T., Fennell, F., Geary, D., Lewis, J., Okamoto, Y., et al. (2010).
                        <em>Developing effective fractions instruction for kindergarten through 8th grade: A practice
                            guide</em> (NCEE 2010- 4039). Retrieved from
                        www.whatworks.ed.gov/publications/practiceguides.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_459">
                    <p>Siegler, R. S., &amp; Ramani, G. B. (2009). Playing linear number board games&#8212;but not
                        circular ones&#8212;improves low-income preschoolers&#8217; numerical understanding. <em>Journal
                            of Educational Psychology</em>, 101, 545&#8211;560.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_460">
                    <p>Sowder, J. T., &amp; Wearne, D. (2006). What do we know about eighth-grade student achievement?
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 11</em>(6), 285&#8211;293.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_461">
                    <p>Steffe, L. P., &amp; Olive, J. (Eds.) (2010). <em>Children&#8217;s fractional knowledge</em>. New
                        York: Springer.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_462">
                    <p>Streefland, L. (Ed.). (1991)<em>. Fractions in realistic mathematics education: A paradigm of
                            developmental research</em>. Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_463">
                    <p>Thompson, P. W., &amp; Saldanha, L. A. (2003). Fractions and multiplicative reasoning. In J.
                        Kilpatrick, W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A research companion to principles and
                            standards for school mathematics</em>, (95&#8211;113). Reston, VA: National Council of
                        Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_464">
                    <p>Tzur, R. (1999). An integrated study of children&#8217;s construction of improper fractions and
                        the teacher&#8217;s role in promoting learning. <em>Journal for Research in Mathematics
                            Education</em>, 30, 390&#8211;416.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_465">
                    <p>Watanabe, T. (2007). Initial treatment of fractions in Japanese textbooks. <em>Focus on Learning
                            Problems in Mathematics, 29</em>(2), 41&#8211;60.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_466">
                    <p>Wearne, D., &amp; Kouba, V. L. (2000). Rational numbers. In E. A. Silver &amp; P. A. Kenney
                        (Eds.), <em>Results from the seventh mathematics assessment of the National Assessment of
                            Educational Progress</em> (pp. 163&#8211;191). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_467">
                    <p>Williams, L. (2008). Tiering and scaffolding: Two strategies for providing access to important
                        mathematics. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 14</em>(6), 324&#8211;330.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_468">
                    <p>Zhang, X., Clements, M. A., &amp; Ellerton, N. F. (2015). Engaging students with multiple models
                        of fractions. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 22</em>(3), 138&#8211;147.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec15">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 15</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_469">
                    <p>Battista, M. (2012). <em>Cognition-based assessment and teaching of geometric measurement:
                            Building on students&#8217; reasoning.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_470">
                    <p>Blume, G., Galindo, E., &amp; Walcott, C. (2007). Performance in measurement and geometry from
                        the viewpoint of Principles and Standards for School Mathematics. In P. Kloosterman &amp; F.
                        Lester, Jr. (Eds.), <em>Results and interpretations of the 2003 mathematics assessment of the
                            National Assessment of Educational Progress</em> (pp. 95&#8211;138). Reston, VA: National
                        Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_471">
                    <p>Dietiker, L., Gonulates, F., Figueras, J., &amp; Smith, J. P. (2010, April). <em>Weak attention
                            to unit iteration in U.S. elementary curriculum materials</em>. Presentation at the annual
                        conference of the American Educational Research Association, Denver, CO.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_472">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_473">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2009). <em>Learning and teaching early math: The learning
                            trajectories approach.</em> New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_474">
                    <p>Curry, M., Mitchelmore, M., &amp; Outhred, L. (2006). Development of children&#8217;s
                        understanding of length, area, and volume measurement principles. In J. Novotna, H. Moraova, M.
                        Kratka, &amp; N. Stehlikova (Eds.), <em>Proceedings for 30th Conference of the International
                            Group for the Psychology of Mathematics Education, Vol. 2</em>, pp. 377&#8211;384.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_475">
                    <p>Hightower, S. (1997). <em>Twelve snails to one lizard: A tale of mischief and measurement</em>.
                        New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_476">
                    <p>Jenkins, S. (2011a). <em>Actual size</em>. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_477">
                    <p>Jenkins, S. (2011b). <em>Just a second</em>. New York, NY: Houghton Mifflin.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_478">
                    <p>Joram, E. (2003). Benchmarks as tools for developing measurement sense. In D. H. Clements (Ed.),
                        <em>Learning and teaching measurement</em> (pp. 57&#8211;67). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_479">
                    <p>Kloosterman, P., Rutledge, Z., &amp; Kenney, P. (2009). Exploring the results of the NAEP: 1980s
                        to the present. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 14</em>(6), 357&#8211;365.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_480">
                    <p>Leedy, L. (2000). <em>Measuring Penny.</em> New York, NY: Henry Holt and Company.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_481">
                    <p>Myller, R. (1991). <em>How big is a foot?</em> South Holland, IL: Yearling Books. National Center
                        for Educational Statistics. (2014). <em>NAEP questions tool</em>. Retrieved from
                        http://nces.ed.gov/nationsreportcard/itmrlsx/landing.aspx.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_482">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2003). <em>Navigating through measurement in
                            prekindergarten&#8211;grade 2</em>. Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_483">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_484">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2009). <em>Focus in high school mathematics:
                            Reasoning and sense making</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_485">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2011b, March). <em>Position statement on the metric
                            system</em>. Retrieved from www.nctm.org/about/content.aspx?id=29000.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_486">
                    <p>National Research Council Committee. (2009). <em>Mathematics learning in early childhood: Paths
                            toward excellence and equity</em>. Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_487">
                    <p><span id="pager14" class="pagebreak" title="R-14" />Provasnik, S., Kastberg, D., Ferraro, D.,
                        Lemanski, N., Roey, S., and Jenkins, F. (2012). <em>Highlights from TIMSS 2011: Mathematics and
                            Science Achievement of U.S. Fourth- and Eighth-Grade Students in an International
                            Context</em> (NCES 2013-009). National Center for Education Statistics, Institute of
                        Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education. Washington, DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_488">
                    <p>Thompson, T. D., &amp; Preston, R. V. (2004). Measurement in the middle grades: Insights from
                        NAEP and TIMSS. <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 9</em>(9), 514&#8211;519.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_489">
                    <p>Tompert, A. (1997). <em>Grandfather Tang&#8217;s story</em>. New York: Dragonfly Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_490">
                    <p>Towers, J., &amp; Hunter, K. (2010). An ecological reading of mathematical language in a grade 3
                        classroom: A case of learning and teaching measurement estimation. <em>The Journal of
                            Mathematical Behavior,</em> 29, 25&#8211;40.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec16">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 16</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_491">
                    <p>Battista, M. T. (2007). The development of geometric and spatial thinking. In F. Lester (Ed.),
                        <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp. 843&#8211;908).
                        Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_492">
                    <p>Battista, M. (2012). <em>Cognition-based assessment and teaching of geometric shapes: Building on
                            students&#8217; reasoning.</em> Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_493">
                    <p>Bednar, S. (2009). <em>Flags of the world.</em> New York, NY: Abrams Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_494">
                    <p>Clements, D. (1999). Geometric and spatial thinking in young children. In J. Copely (Ed.),
                        <em>Mathematics in the early years</em> (pp. 66&#8211;79). Reston, VA: National Council of
                        Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_495">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Battista, M. T. (1992). Geometry and spatial reasoning. In D. A. Grouws
                        (Ed.), <em>Handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp. 420&#8211;464).
                        Old Tappan, NJ: Macmillan.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_496">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2000a). Young children&#8217;s ideas about geometric shapes.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 6</em>(8), 482&#8211;488.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_497">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2000b). The earliest geometry. <em>Teaching Children
                            Mathematics, 7</em>(2), 82&#8211;86.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_498">
                    <p>Clements, D., &amp; Sarama, J. (2014). <em>Learning and teaching early math: The learning
                            trajectories approach</em> (2nd ed.). New York: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_499">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_500">
                    <p>Ehlert, L. (1989). <em>Color zoo</em>. New York: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_501">
                    <p>Ehlert, L. (1990). <em>Color farm</em>. New York: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_502">
                    <p>Hoban, T. (2000). <em>Cubes, cones, cylinders and shapes</em>. New York: Greenwillow.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_503">
                    <p>National Center for Educational Statistics. (2014). <em>NAEP questions tool</em>. Retrieved from
                        http://nces.ed.gov/nationsreportcard/itmrlsx/landing.aspx.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_504">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics.</em> Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_505">
                    <p>NCTM (National Council of Teachers of Mathematics). (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: NCTM.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_506">
                    <p>National Research Council Committee. (2009). <em>Mathematics learning in early childhood: Paths
                            toward excellence and equity.</em> Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_507">
                    <p>Sarama, J., &amp; Clements, D. H. (2009). <em>Early childhood mathematics education research:
                            Learning trajectories for young children</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_508">
                    <p>Sowder, J. T., &amp; Wearne, D. (2006). What do we know about eighth-grade student achievement?
                        <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School, 11</em>(6), 285&#8211;293.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_509">
                    <p>Tompert, A. (1997). <em>Grandfather Tang&#8217;s story</em>. New York: Dragonfly Books.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_510">
                    <p>van Hiele, P. M. (1984). A child&#8217;s thought and geometry. In Geddes, D., Fuys, D. &amp;
                        Tischler, R. (Eds.). <em>English Translation of Selected Writings of Dina van Hiele-Geldof and
                            Pierre M. van Hiele</em>, Washington, DC: National Science Foundation.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_511">
                    <p>van Hiele, P. M. (1999). Developing geometric thinking through activities that begin with play.
                        <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 5</em>(6), 310&#8211;316.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_512">
                    <p>Yu, P., Barrett, J., &amp; Presmeg, N. (2009). Prototypes and categorical reasoning: A
                        perspective to explain how children learn about interactive geometry objects. In T. Craine &amp;
                        R. Rubenstein (Eds.) <em>Understanding geometry for a changing world.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_513">
                    <p>Zwillinger, D. (Ed.) (2011). <em>Standard mathematical tables and formulae</em> (32nd ed.). Boca
                        Raton, FL: CRC Press.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="bibliodiv level2" id="biblev1sec17">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" epub:type="title">Chapter 17</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="biblioentrylist">
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_514">
                    <p>Brown, M. (2005). <em>Goodnight moon</em>. New York, NY: Harper Collins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_515">
                    <p>Burrill, G. F., &amp; Elliot, P. (2006). <em>Thinking and reasoning with data and chance: 68th
                            NCTM yearbook.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_516">
                    <p>Council of Chief State School Officers. (2010). <em>Common Core State Standards</em>. Washington,
                        DC.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_517">
                    <p>Clements, D. H., &amp; Sarama, J. (2009). <em>Learning and teaching early math: The learning
                            trajectories approach</em>. New York, NY: Routledge.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_518">
                    <p>Cook, C. D. (2008). I scream, you scream: Data analysis with kindergartners. <em>Teaching
                            Children Mathematics, 14</em>(9), 538&#8211;540.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_519">
                    <p>English, L. (2013). Surviving an avalanche of data. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics,
                            19</em>(6), 364&#8211;372.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_520">
                    <p>Franklin, C. A., &amp; Garfield, J. B. (2006). The GAISE Project: Developing statistics education
                        guidelines for grades PreK&#8211;12 and college courses. In G. F. Burrill &amp; P. C. Elliott
                        (Eds.), <em>Thinking and reasoning with data and chance: 68th NCTM yearbook</em> (pp.
                        345&#8211;376). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_521">
                    <p>Franklin, C. A., Kader, G., Mewborn, D., Moreno, J., Peck, R., Perry, M., &amp; Scheaffer, R.
                        (2005). <em>Guidelines for assessment and instruction in statistics education (GAISE)
                            report</em>. Alexandria, VA: American Statistical Association.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_522">
                    <p>Franklin, C. A., &amp; Mewborn, D. S. (2008). Statistics in the elementary grades: Exploring
                        distribution of data. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 15</em>(1), 10&#8211;16.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_523">
                    <p>Friel, S. N., Curcio, F. R., &amp; Bright, G. W. (2001). Making sense of graphs: Critical factors
                        influencing comprehension and instructional implications. <em>Journal for Research in
                            Mathematics Education, 32</em>, 124&#8211;158.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_524">
                    <p>Friel, S. N., O&#8217;Conner, W., &amp; Mamer, J. D. (2006). More than &#8220;mean median
                        mode&#8221; and a bar graph: What&#8217;s needed to have a statistical conversation? In G. F.
                        Burrill &amp; P. C. Elliott (Eds.), <em>Thinking and reasoning about data and chance: 68th NCTM
                            yearbook</em> (pp. 117&#8211;138). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_525">
                    <p><span id="pager15" class="pagebreak" title="R-15" />Hourigan, M., &amp; Leavy, A. (2015/2016).
                        Practical problems: Using literature to teach statistics. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics,
                            22</em>(5), 282&#8211;291.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_526">
                    <p>Hudson, P. J., Shupe, M., Vasquez, E., &amp; Miller, S. P. (2008). Teaching data analysis to
                        elementary students with mild disabilities. <em>TEACHING Exceptional Children Plus, 4</em>(3),
                        Article 5. Retrieved June 7, 2016 from
                        http://escholarship.bc.edu/education/tecplus/vol4/iss3/art5.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_527">
                    <p>Kader, G. D., &amp; Jacobbe, T. (2013). <em>Developing essential understanding of statistics for
                            teaching mathematics in grades 6&#8211;8.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_528">
                    <p>Konold, C., Higgins, T., Russell, S., &amp; Khalil, K. (2004). <em>Data seen through different
                            lenses.</em> Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts. Retrieved from
                        www.srri.umass.edu/publications/konold-2004dst.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_529">
                    <p>Langrall, C., Nisbet, S., Mooney, E., &amp; Jansem, S. (2011). The role of context expertise when
                        comparing data. <em>Mathematical Thinking and Learning, 13</em>, 47&#8211;67.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_530">
                    <p>Lobel, A. (1970). <em>Frog and Toad are friends.</em> New York: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_531">
                    <p>Mokros, J., &amp; Wright, T. (2009). Zoos, aquariums, and expanding students&#8217; data
                        literacy. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 15</em>(9), 524&#8211;530.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_532">
                    <p>Murphy, S. (1997). <em>The best vacation ever.</em> New York: HarperCollins.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_533">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2000). <em>Principles and standards for school
                            mathematics.</em> Reston, VA: Author.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_534">
                    <p>National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. (2006). <em>Curriculum focal points for
                            prekindergarten through grade 8 mathematics: A quest for coherence</em>. Reston, VA: Author.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_535">
                    <p>Niezgoda, D. A., &amp; Moyer-Packenham, P. S. (2005). Hickory, dickory, dock: Navigating through
                        data analysis. <em>Teaching Children Mathematics, 11</em>(6), 292&#8211;300.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_536">
                    <p>Russell, S. J. (2006). What does it mean that &#8220;5 has a lot&#8221;? From the world to data
                        and back. In G. F. Burrill &amp; P. C. Elliott (Eds.), <em>Thinking and reasoning about data and
                            chance: 68th NCTM yearbook</em> (pp. 17&#8211;30). Reston VA: National Council of Teachers
                        of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_537">
                    <p>Shaughnessy, J. M. (2003). Research on students&#8217; understanding of probability. In J.
                        Kilpatrick, W. G. Martin, &amp; D. Schifter (Eds.), <em>A research companion to Principles and
                            Standards for School Mathematics</em> (pp. 216&#8211;226). Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_538">
                    <p>Shaughnessy, J. M. (2006). Research on students&#8217; understanding of some big concepts in
                        statistics. In G. F. Burrill &amp; P. C. Elliott (Eds.), <em>Thinking and reasoning about data
                            and chance: 68th NCTM yearbook</em> (pp. 77&#8211;98). Reston, VA: National Council of
                        Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_539">
                    <p>Shaughnessy, J. M. (2007). Research on statistics learning and reasoning. In F. Lester, Jr.
                        (Ed.), <em>Second handbook of research on mathematics teaching and learning</em> (pp.
                        957&#8211;1010). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_540">
                    <p>Scheaffer, R. L. (2006). Statistics and mathematics: On making a happy marriage. In G. F. Burrill
                        &amp; P. C. Elliott (Eds.), <em>Thinking and reasoning about data and chance: 68th NCTM
                            yearbook</em> (pp. 309&#8211;322). Reston, VA: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_541">
                    <p>Seuss, Dr. (1960). <em>Green eggs and ham</em>. New York, NY: Random House.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_542">
                    <p>Smith, D. (2009). <em>If America were a village: A book about the people of the United
                            States</em>. Tonawanda, NY: Kids Can Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_543">
                    <p>Smith, D. (2011). <em>If the world were a village: A book about the world&#8217;s people</em>
                        (2nd ed.). Tonawanda, NY: Kids Can Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_544">
                    <p>Swinburne, S. (2011). <em>Whose shoes? A shoe for every job.</em> Honesdale, PA: Boyds Mill
                        Press.</p>
                </li>
                <li class="biblioentry" id="ref_545">
                    <p>Tarr, J. E., &amp; Shaughnessy, J. M. (2007). <em>Data and chance. Results from the 2003 National
                            Assessment of Educational Process.</em> Reston, VA: NCTM.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </section>
</body>

</html>