<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Questions beyond Self and Classmates</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header id="chap17-head3_5">
<h3 class="title">Questions beyond Self and Classmates</h3>
</header>
<p>The questions in the previous section are designed for children to contribute data about themselves. These questions can be expanded by asking, &#8220;How would our data compare to another class?&#8221; For example, do other second-grade children spend the same amount of time <span id="page406" class="pagebreak" title="406" />watching TV or like the same foods as they do? How much taller are children in the next grade or two grades ahead of them? Comparisons can also be made between your own class and selected groups of adults to which the children have access, such as parents or faculty. Comparison questions are a good way to help children focus on the data they have collected and the variability within that data (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_536" >Russell, 2006</a>).</p>
<p>To further expand your children&#8217;s perspective, you might explore ways that your class can compare themselves or their data with similar classes in other places in the state, other states, or perhaps even in a foreign country. This can open up not just a source of interesting data but also a way for your children to see beyond their own localities, as is done in the next activity.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch_17_teachtip_02">
<header>
<h2 class="title" id="ch_17_teachtip_02">Teaching Tip</h2></header>

<p>If your children have &#8220;buddies&#8221; in the upper grades, they can collect data from their buddies.</p>
</aside>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch17-activity-17-1">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch17-activity-17-1">Activity 17.1 Who Is in Our Village?</h2></header>

<p><strong>CCSS-M: 2.MD.D.10</strong></p>
<p>The picture books <em>If America Were a Village: A Book about the People of the United States</em> (Smith, 2009) and <em>If the World Were a Village: A Book about the World&#8217;s People</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_543" >Smith, 2011</a>) provide an excellent opportunity to compare class data or school data to the wider population in the United States and in the world, respectively. Each book explores relative wealth, culture, language, and other influences, providing the statistics in the adapted case of the country (or the world) being a village of 100 people. Read the books in their entirety or select several excerpts for comparisons to the class. Ask children if they think data from our class (or school) will be similar to the data in the book for particular topics. Gather and compare class data to data for the United States and/or for the world. Then ask children what else they think might be interesting data about our country or our world that could be added to the pages of these books.</p>
</aside>
<p>The local newspaper can suggest all sorts of data-related questions. For example, how many advertisements are included in the newspaper on different days of the week?
How many sports stories are about different types of sports (e.g., basketball, football, swimming, etc.)? How many pages is the local paper each day of the week?</p>
<p>Science, of course, is about inquiry and is full of measurements and therefore provides excellent opportunities for interdisciplinary learning experiences. For example, consider this short list of ideas:</p>
<ul>
<li>How many plastic bottles or aluminum cans are placed in the school&#8217;s recycling bins over a given week?</li>
<li>How many times do different types of balls bounce when each is dropped from the same height?</li>
<li>How many days does it take for different types of bean, squash, and pea seeds to germinate when kept in moist paper towels?</li>
<li>Which brand of bubble gum will give you the largest bubble?</li>
<li>Do some liquids expand more than others when frozen?</li>
<li>Does a plant grow faster when watered with water, soda, or milk?</li>
</ul>
<p>Before going on a field trip children can develop questions that are used to gather data on the trip (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_531" >Mokros &amp; Wright, 2009</a>). For example, when visiting a zoo, children might look for the number of animals that are smaller than a small dog, like a Jack Russell terrier, or how many animals <span id="page407" class="pagebreak" title="407" />are larger than a large dog, like a golden retriever. (Make sure that the animals or objects chosen are ones that all the children are familiar with!) Other questions might be:</p>
<ul>
<li>How many animals have wings and how many don&#8217;t?</li>
<li>Are there more animals with fur than not?</li>
<li>How many animals have no legs, two legs, four legs, or more legs?</li>
<li>How many animals move around in various ways (e.g., f ly, slither, crawl on four legs, walk on two legs, etc.)?</li>
</ul>
<p>You can work with zoo personnel before going on the trip to identify possible topics to share with children to help them develop questions that they are curious about.</p>
<p>Discussions about communities provide a good way to integrate social studies and mathematics. As you study the community in which children live, many questions arise, as seen in the next activity.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch17-activity-17-2">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch17-activity-17-2">Activity 17.2 What Can We Learn about Our Community?</h2></header>

<p><strong>CCSS-M: 1.MD.C.4; 2.MD.D10</strong></p>
<p>This activity plays out over several days. First, ask children to turn in a note card with three statistical questions they would like to investigate during the year. This could be assigned as homework, with children&#8217;s families helping to brainstorm ideas. Collect these ideas. When you have time to start the investigation, take one question from the set. As a class, refine the question to one that can be answered using statistics. Examples of questions include:</p>
<ul>
<li>How many different kinds of restaurants or stores are in our community (fast food restaurants versus &#8220;sit down&#8221; restaurants; Italian, Mexican, or American; convenience stores, grocery stores, clothing stores, variety stores)?</li>
<li>How many responses are made by local firefighters each month? How many different types of responses are made by local firefighters each month (fire, medical, hazardous, 	public service)? (Data can usually be found on websites of local institutions.)</li>
<li>How many state and local government officials do voters elect?</li>
</ul>
<p>Discuss ways to gather the data. Set up a plan and deadline for gathering the data. When children bring in the data, encourage them to select and use data displays (e.g., bar graph, line plot, etc.). Invite children to share. Return to the question and ask, &#8220;What does our data tell us about _____?&#8221; Consider how the different data displays communicate the answer to this question. See <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Expanded_Lesson_Using_Data_to_Answer_a_Question.pdf" class="ulink">Expanded Lesson: Using Data to Answer a Question</a> for a full lesson around this activity.</p>
</aside>
<p>Children will need help in designing questions that can be answered using statistics. These are questions that include variability and for which data can be gathered. Providing examples and nonexamples can help children, in particular those with disabilities, focus on the elements of an appropriate statistical question. For example, in the questions below, some can be answered using statistics and some cannot.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>How much change do I have in my pocket?</p></li>
<li><p>What is the typical amount of loose change a person carries in their pocket?</p></li>
<li><p>What cereal is most healthy?</p></li>
<li><p>What reasons do people use in selecting gum (e.g., taste, cost, bubble-making quality, long lasting, good breath)?</p></li>
<li><p><span id="page408" class="pagebreak" title="408" />How long do different kinds of gum keep their f lavor?</p></li>
<li><p>Which store has the best prices?</p></li>
<li><p>Where will you buy shampoo?</p></li>
</ol>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch17-stop-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch17-stop-02">Stop and Reflect</h2></header>
<p>Which of the previous questions are statistical and which ones are not statistical in nature?</p>
</aside>
<p>Questions 1, 3, and 7 are <em>not</em> statistical in nature. Question 3 could be adapted to a statistical question with a more specific focus on what is meant by healthy. Similarly, question 7 is very broad and will need to be focused in order to collect the data needed to answer it. Facilitating discussions with children about examples and nonexamples as well as questions they develop improves their ability to generate appropriate statistical questions.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
