<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Caution: Avoid Relying on the Key Words Strategy!</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap9-head3_16">Caution: Avoid Relying on the Key Words Strategy!</h3>
</header>
<p>It is often suggested that children should be taught to use &#8220;key words&#8221; in story problems to decide whether to add, subtract, multiply, or divide. For example, with the key words approach &#8220;altogether&#8221; and &#8220;in all&#8221; mean you should add and &#8220;left&#8221; and &#8220;fewer&#8221; indicate you should subtract. To some extent, the overly simple and formulaic story problems sometimes found in textbooks reinforce this approach (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_298" >Sulentic-Dowell, Beal, &amp; Capraro, 2006</a>). When problems are written in this way, it may appear that the key word strategy is effective.</p>
<p>In contrast with this belief, researchers and mathematics educators have long cautioned against the strategy of key words (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_272" >Clement &amp; Bernhard, 2005</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_297" >Sowder, 1988</a>). Here are four arguments against relying on the key word approach.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>The key word strategy sends a terribly wrong message about doing mathematics. The most important approach to solving any contextual problem is to analyze it and make sense of it using all the words. The key word approach encourages children to ignore the meaning and structure of the problem and look for an easy way out. Mathematics is about reasoning and making sense of situations. Sense-making strategies <em>always</em> work!</p></li>
</ol>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-smp-19">
<header><h2 class="title">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>1 Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.</strong></p>
</aside>

<ol class="numbered" start="2">
<li><p>Key words are often misleading. Many times the key word or phrase in a problem suggests an operation that is incorrect. For example, consider this story problem:</p>
<p>A child using the word &#8220;left&#8221; as a suggestion to subtract 73 &#8211; 28 will generate the incorrect answer of 45. Instead of making sense of the situation, the key word approach is used as a shortcut in making a decision about which operation to select.</p>
</li>
</ol>

<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_19">
<p>Maxine gave 28 stickers she no longer wanted to Zandra. Now Maxine has 73 stickers <em>left.</em> How many stickers did Maxine have to begin with?</p>
</aside>
<ol class="numbered" start="3">
<li><p>Many problems have no key words. Especially when you get away from the overly simple problems found in primary textbooks, you will find that a large percentage of problems have no key words. A child who has been taught to rely on key words is then left with no strategy. In both the addition and the multiplication problems in <span id="page175" class="pagebreak" title="175"/>this chapter, you will find numerous examples of problems with no key words. Here&#8217;s an example:</p></li></ol>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_20">
<p>Aidan has 28 goldfish. Twelve are orange and the rest are yellow. How many goldfish are yellow?</p>
</aside>
<ol class="numbered" start="4">
<li><p>Key words don&#8217;t work with two-step problems or more advanced problems, so using key words for simpler problems sets children up for failure because they are not learning how to read for meaning.</p></li></ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>