<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Lessons in the Problem-Based Classroom</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Lessons in the Problem-Based Classroom</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Lessons that engage children in problem solving look quite different from traditional lessons that follow the
            &#8220;I-we-you&#8221; or &#8220;explain, then practice&#8221; pattern. Mathematical practices such as
            modeling mathematics, reasoning quantitatively, and looking for generalizations and structure are not
            developed in a lecture-style lesson. In contrast, in classrooms where learning is assumed to be a complex
            process and where inquiry and problem solving are emphasized, <span id="page33" class="pagebreak"
                title="33" />worthwhile tasks are posed to challenge children&#8217;s thinking and children are expected
            to communicate and justify their ideas. In these kinds of classrooms, preparing a lesson shifts from
            preparing an agenda of what will happen to creating a &#8220;thought experiment&#8221; to consider what
            might happen (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_30" >Davis, Sumara, &amp;
                Luce-Kapler, 2008</a>).</p>
        <p>The first teaching practice listed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_02.xhtml#Tab_2-1">Table 2.1</a>,
            <em>establish mathematics goals to focus learning</em>, is one of the most important. Being clear about the
            target mathematics that you want children to learn as a result of a particular lesson or lessons helps you
            to be intentional as you make instructional choices during planning as well as implementation. For example,
            in planning the lesson, you need to purposefully select a worthwhile task that has maximum potential to
            illuminate the target learning goals. Without this intentionality, your lesson can lack focus and
            consequently, not culminate in the desired results. The three-phase lesson format discussed next is intended
            to support the creation of intentional lessons that support mathematical inquiry.</p>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-13">A Three-Phase Lesson Format</h3>
        </header>
        <p>A lesson format that uses the three phases <em>before, during,</em> and <em>after</em> provides a structure
            for teaching mathematics through inquiry or problem solving. <em>Before</em> refers to what happens in the
            lesson to set up the inquiry<em>, during</em> refers to the time during which the children explore the
            worthwhile problem, and <em>after</em> refers to what happens in the lesson after the problem is solved
            (e.g., discussion, reflection, and making connections). A lesson may take one or more math sessions, but the
            three-phase structure can also be applied to shorter tasks, resulting in a 10- to 20-minute mini-lesson. <a
                class="xref" href="chapter0002_14.xhtml#Tab_2-5">Table 2.5</a> describes appropriate teacher actions and
            provides some illustrative examples for each phase of the lesson.<span id="page34" class="pagebreak"
                title="34" /></p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_2-5">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">2.5</span> Teaching mathematics
                    through problem solving lends itself to a three-phase structure for lessons.</h4>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Lesson Phase</strong></th>
                    <th colspan="2" scope="colgroup"><strong>Teacher Actions in a Teaching Mathematics through Problem-Solving
                            Lesson</strong></th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td><strong>Before</strong></td>
                    <td>Activate prior knowledge.</td>
                    <td>Begin with a related but simpler task; connect to children&#8217;s experiences; brainstorm
                        approaches or solution strategies; estimate or predict if tasks involve a single computation or
                        are aimed at the development of a computational procedure.</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Be sure the problem is understood.</td>
                    <td>Have children explain to you what the problem is asking. Go over vocabulary that may be
                        troubling. Caution: This does <em>not</em> mean that you are explaining how to <em>do</em> the
                        problem&#8212;just that children should understand what the problem is about.</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Establish clear expectations.</td>
                    <td>Tell children whether they will work individually, in pairs, or in small groups, or if they will
                        have a choice. Tell them how they will share their solutions and reasoning.</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td><strong>During</strong></td>
                    <td>Let go!</td>
                    <td>Although it is tempting to want to step in and &#8220;help,&#8221; hold back and enjoy observing
                        and learning from the children.</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Notice children&#8217;s mathematical thinking.</td>
                    <td>Base your questions on the children&#8217;s work and their responses to you. Use questions like
                        &#8220;Tell me what you are doing&#8221;; &#8220;I see you have started to [add] these numbers.
                        Can you tell me why you are [adding]?&#8221; [substitute any process/strategy]; &#8220;Can you
                        tell me more about . . . ?&#8221;; &#8220;Why did you . . . ?&#8221;; &#8220;How does your
                        diagram connect to the problem?&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Provide appropriate support.</td>
                    <td>Look for ways to support children&#8217;s thinking and avoid telling them how to solve the
                        problem. Ensure that the children understand the problem (e.g., &#8220;What do you know about
                        the problem?&#8221;); ask the children what they have already tried (e.g., &#8220;Where did you
                        get stuck?&#8221;); suggest to the children that they use a different strategy (e.g., &#8220;Can
                        you draw a diagram?&#8221;; &#8220;What if you used cubes to act out this problem?&#8221;;
                        &#8220;Is this like another problem we have solved?&#8221;); create a parallel problem with
                        simpler values (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_42" >Jacobs &amp; Ambrose, 2008</a
>).</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Provide worthwhile extensions.</td>
                    <td>Challenge early finishers in some manner that is related to the problem just solved. Possible
                        questions to ask are &#8220;I see you found one way to do this. Are there any other
                        solutions?&#8220;; &#8220;Are any of the solutions different or more interesting than
                        others?&#8221; Some good questions for extending thinking are &#8220;What if . . . ?&#8221; or
                        &#8220;Would that same idea work for . . . ?&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td><strong>After</strong></td>
                    <td>Promote a community of learners.</td>
                    <td>You must teach children about your expectations for this time and how to interact respectfully
                        with their peers. Role-play appropriate (and inappropriate) ways of responding to each other.
                        The &#8220;Orchestrating Classroom Discourse&#8221; section in this chapter provides strategies
                        and recommendations for how to facilitate discussions that help create a community of learners.
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Listen actively without evaluation.</td>
                    <td>The goal here is noticing children&#8217;s mathematical thinking and making that thinking
                        visible to other children. Avoid judging the correctness of an answer so that children are more
                        willing to share their ideas. Support children&#8217;s thinking without evaluation by simply
                        asking what others think about a child&#8217;s response.</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#160;</td>
                    <td>Summarize main ideas and identify future problems.</td>
                    <td>Formalize the main ideas of the lesson, helping to highlight connections among strategies or
                        different mathematical ideas. In addition, this is the time to reinforce appropriate
                        terminology, definitions, and symbols. You may also want to lay the groundwork for future tasks
                        and activities.</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Before</h4>
        </header>
        <p>The essence of the <em>before</em> phase of the lesson is to prepare children to work on the worthwhile task
            you have purposefully selected. What you do in the <em>before</em> phase of the lesson will vary depending
            on the mathematical goals and the selected task. For example, if your children are familiar with solving
            story problems and know they are expected to use words, pictures, and numbers to explain their reasoning in
            writing, all that may be required is to read through the problem together and make sure everyone understands
            it. On the other hand, if the task requires children to model the situation with a new manipulative, more
            time may be needed to familiarize them with the tool. Or if vocabulary needs to be revisited, a related but
            simpler task could be used in the <em>before</em> phase as a way to activate prior knowledge to ensure
            children understand the terms used in the focus task.</p>
        <p>As you plan for the <em>before</em> part of the lesson, it is important to analyze the problems you will give
            to children in order to anticipate their approaches and possible misinterpretations or misconceptions (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_68" >Wallace, 2007</a>). This process can inform
            what you do to prepare the children to work on the selected task, without giving away how to solve the task.
            The more questions raised and addressed prior to the task, the more engaged children will be in the
            <em>during</em> phase.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">During</h4>
        </header>
        <p>In the <em>during</em> phase of the lesson children engage in mathematical activity (alone, with partners, or
            in small groups) to explore, gather, and record information; make and test conjectures; and solve the
            mathematical task. In this phase of the lesson you should be engaged in &#8220;professional
            noticing&#8221;&#8212;that is, in the moment, trying to understand what children know, how they are thinking
            and approaching the task at hand, and how to respond appropriately to extend children&#8217;s thinking (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_43" >Jacobs, Lamb, &amp; Philipp, 2010</a>). In
            making instructional decisions in the <em>during</em> phase you must ask yourself, &#8220;Does my action
            lead to deeper thinking or does it remove the need to think?&#8221; These decisions are based on carefully
            listening to children&#8217;s <span id="page35" class="pagebreak" title="35" />ideas and knowing the
            learning goals of the lesson. This is very different from listening for or leading children toward an
            answer. Don&#8217;t be afraid to say that you don&#8217;t understand a child&#8217;s strategy. When you are
            open to learning, you help children become more comfortable with engaging in the learning process.</p>
        <p>Children will look to you for approval of their results or ideas. This is not the time to evaluate or to tell
            children how to solve the problem. When asked whether a result or method is correct, respond by asking,
            &#8220;How can you decide?&#8221; or &#8220;Why do you think that might be right?&#8221; Asking questions
            such as &#8220;How can we tell if that makes sense?&#8221; reminds children that the correctness of the
            answer lies in the justification, not in the teacher&#8217;s brain or answer key.</p>
        <p>Letting go, one of the teacher actions in this phase, includes allowing children to make mistakes. Ask
            children to explain their process or approach when they make mistakes as well as when they are correct. As
            they explain they may catch their mistake. Also, in the <em>after</em> portion of the lesson, children will
            have the opportunity to explain, justify, defend, and challenge solutions and strategies. This process of
            uncovering and working through misconceptions and computational errors emphasizes the important notion that
            mistakes and misconceptions are opportunities for learning (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_22"
                >Boaler, 2016</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_31"
                >Dweck, 2006</a>).</p>
        <p>Use this time in the <em>during</em> phase to identify different representations and strategies children
            used, interesting solutions, and any misconceptions that arise that you will highlight and address during
            the <em>after</em> phase of the lesson. As you notice the range of ideas, consider how they are related and
            in what order you might sequence the sharing of solutions in the <em>after</em> phase of the lesson (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_60" >Smith &amp; Stein, 2011</a>).</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">After</h4>
        </header>
        <p>In the <em>after</em> phase of the lesson your children will work as a community of learners, discussing,
            justifying, and challenging various solutions to the problem that they have just worked on. The
            <em>after</em> phase is where much of the learning will occur as children reflect individually and
            collectively on the ideas they have explored. As in the <em>during</em> phase of the lesson, the goal here
            is noticing children&#8217;s mathematical thinking; but additionally, in the <em>after</em> phase we want to
            make this thinking visible to other children. By strategically sequencing which drawings, notations, and
            ideas are shared, you can create spaces for children to take up, try on, connect, and expand on the ideas of
            others. This is also the time to reinforce precise terminology, definitions, or symbols. After children have
            shared their solutions, strategies, and reasoning, formalize the main ideas of the lesson, highlighting
            connections between strategies or different mathematical ideas.</p>
        <p>Because this is the place in the lesson where much of the learning will occur, it is critical to plan for and
            save ample time for this part of the lesson. Twenty minutes is not at all unreasonable for a good class
            discussion and sharing of ideas. It is not necessary to wait for every child to finish the task before
            moving into the <em>after</em> portion of the lesson. The time they have engaged with the task should
            prepare them to share and compare ideas.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>