<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Effective Drill</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_22">Effective Drill</h3>
</header>
<p><span id="page203" class="pagebreak" title="203"/>Drill&#8212;repetitive nonproblem-based activity&#8212;in the absence of reasoning has repeatedly been shown to be ineffective. Nonetheless, drill can strengthen memory and retrieval capabilities (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_304" >Ashcraft &amp; Christy, 1995</a>) but it should be low-stress and engaging. Drill is only appropriate after children know strategies and have moved from phase 2 to phase 3. The games and activities from this chapter can be played even after children know the facts from memory and will serve as a low-stress and engaging way to strengthen memory and retrieval.</p>
<p>Too often drill includes too many facts too quickly, causing children to become frustrated and overwhelmed. Also, children will progress at different rates&#8212;gifted children tend to be good at memorizing; whereas, children with intellectual disabilities have difficulty memorizing (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_318" >Forbringer &amp; Fahsl, 2010</a>). Rather than work on all facts, identify a group of related facts (e.g., near-doubles) and look at patterns within that set. By organizing the work around related facts, if a child needs any further discussion and illustrations, the focus will be beneficial. Children can create their own cards with each fact written both ways (e.g., 3 + 5 and 5 + 3), with addends represented in ten-frames, and the answer on the back. They can work with these at home or with a partner, and keep track of the ones they &#8220;just know&#8221; and the ones for which they use a strategy.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch10_tech-note-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch10_tech-note-02">Technology Note</h2>
</header>
<p>There are several websites and software programs that provide children opportunities to drill basic facts (see <a class="xref" href="#Tab_10-4">Table 10.4</a>). None of these currently support strategy development, but these programs can be a great support for children who are near mastery or who are maintaining mastery. One disadvantage of most of these sites is that they focus on all the facts at one time. Two exceptions&#8212;<strong><em>Fun 4 the Brain</em></strong> and <strong><em>Math Fact Caf&#233;</em></strong>&#8212;allow you to target groups of related facts.</p>
</aside>
<figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_10-4">
<header><h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">10.4</span> Online resources for mastery of basic math facts.</h2></header></figure>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Name</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Fun 4 the Brain: <em>Math Games</em></td>
<td>This site offers over a dozen games for addition facts. Pick a game (e.g., Snowy&#8217;s Friend) and then pick the fact families you would like to explore.</td>			
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>Math Fact Caf&#233;</em></td>
<td>Here you will find a lot of downloadable practice: premade fact sheets, flashcards, and practice pages, or create your own practice pages, selecting the number of practice problems, the level of difficulty, and which fact families.</td>		
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NCTM Illuminations <em>Deep Sea Duel</em></td>
<td>Play this applet: The first person to choose a set of digit cards with a specified sum wins. You can choose how many cards, what types of numbers, and the level of strategy.</td>			
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NCTM Illuminations <em>Let&#8217;s Learn Those Facts</em></td>
<td>Six complete lessons for addition facts are provided, including links to resources and student recording sheets.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BBC <em>Cross the Swamp</em></td>
<td>This British applet asks children to supply a missing operation ( + / &#x02212; ) and a number to complete an equation (e.g., 4_&#8201;_  = 12). There are five questions in a set, each with three levels of difficulty.</td>			
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NLVM <em>Diffy</em></td>
<td>Diffy is a classic mathematics puzzle that involves finding the differences of given numbers. Here it is presented as an applet.</td>			
</tr>
<tr>
<td>IXL Learning</td>
<td>IXL contains interactive practice tools to monitor children&#8217;s progress toward basic fact mastery. Connections with the Common Core State Standards, Department of Defense Education Activity standards, and existing state standards are provided.</td>
</tr>		
</tbody>
</table>
</section>
</body>
</html>