<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Number Sense and the Real World</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Number Sense and the Real World</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Here we examine ways to broaden early knowledge of numbers. Relationships of numbers to real-world quantities
            and measures and the use of numbers in simple estimations can help children develop flexible, intuitive
            ideas about numbers.</p>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap8-head3_6"><span id="page141" class="pagebreak" title="141" />Calendar Activities
            </h3>
        </header>
        <p>Although 90 percent of the classrooms surveyed in a study reported using calendar-related activities (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_248" >Hamre, Downer, Kilday, &amp; McGuire,
                2008</a>), calendar activities are not the kind of mathematics instruction that will support young
            learners in developing mathematical literacy. The calendar may be helpful in developing a sense of time,
            however, the <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_260" >National Research Council
                Committee (2009)</a> has stated that &#8220;using the calendar does not emphasize foundational
            mathematics&#8221; (p. 241)&#8212;in particular, the calendar does not align with the need to develop key
            mathematical relationships related to the number 10 because the calendar is based on groups of seven. The
            committee concludes, &#8220;Doing the calendar is not a substitute for teaching foundational
            mathematics&#8221; (p. 241). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_246" >Ethridge and
                King (2005)</a> suggest that during calendar activities children learn to parrot the response for the
            predictable questions and they don&#8217;t always understand some of the concepts presented. <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_243" >Clements, Baroody, and Sarama (2013)</a>
            recommend avoiding the inappropriate use of the calendar, as it engages only a few children. The key message
            is that doing calendar mathematics should be thought of as an &#8220;add on&#8221; and should not take time
            away from developing essential pre K&#8211;2 mathematics concepts.
        </p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>