<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Strands of Algebraic Reasoning</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Strands of Algebraic Reasoning</h2>
        </header>
        <p>In <em>Young Mathematicians at Work: Constructing Algebra,</em> <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_399"
                >Fosnot and Jacob (2010)</a> write,
            &#8220;It is human to seek and build relations&#8221; (p. 12). Algebraic thinking is used to generalize
            arithmetic, to notice patterns that hold true in algorithms and with properties, and to reason
            quantitatively about such things as whether expressions are equivalent or not. Algebra must be approached in
            a way that children, as they seek and build relations, see it is a useful tool for making sense of all areas
            of mathematics and real-world situations.</p>
        <p>Researchers suggest three strands of algebraic reasoning, all integrating the central notions of
            generalizations and symbolism (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_391" >Blanton,
                2008</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_394" >Carraher &amp; Schliemann,
                2007</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_403" >Kaput, 2008</a>).</p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p>Study of structures in the number system, including those arising in arithmetic (algebra as
                    generalized arithmetic).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Study of patterns, relations, and functions.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Process of mathematical modeling, including the meaningful use of symbols.</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <p>Although algebra is often considered a separate strand of the mathematics curriculum, algebra can and should
            be approached as an integral part of all areas of mathematics. This chapter is organized around these three
            strands. In each section we share how these ideas develop across grades preK&#8722;2.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch_12_teach01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch_12_teach01">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Your success in helping children see relationships and think algebraically is driven by your questions.
                Record the questions suggested throughout this chapter on note cards and keep them handy for lesson
                planning and classroom discussions.</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>