<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Development of Invented Strategies</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Development of Invented Strategies</h2>
        </header>
        <p>You won&#8217;t be surprised to read that children do not spontaneously invent wonderful computational
            methods while you sit back and watch. Children tend to develop or gravitate toward different strategies they
            are exposed to, suggesting that teachers and programs do have an effect on the methods children develop (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_387" >Verschaffel et al., 2007</a>). The following
            sections discuss general pedagogical methods that support children&#8217;s development of invented
            strategies for multidigit addition and subtraction.</p>
        <header>
            <h3 id="chap12-head3_4" class="title">Creating a Supportive Environment</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Invented strategies are developed from a strong understanding of numbers. The development of place-value
            concepts begins to prepare children for the challenges of inventing computational strategies. For example,
            the <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" >CCSSO (2010)</a> suggests that second
            graders <span id="page247" class="pagebreak" title="247" />should be able to use mental computation to find
            a number that is 10 or 100 more (or less) than a given number between 100 and 900. This standard calls for
            young learners to publicly share emerging ideas. Therefore, children need a classroom environment where they
            can act like mathematicians and explore ideas without fear. When children in your classroom attempt to
            investigate new ideas such as invented strategy use, they should find your classroom a safe and nurturing
            place for expressing na&#239;ve or rudimentary thoughts.</p>
        <p>Some of the characteristics described previously regarding the development of a problem-solving environment
            need to be reiterated here to establish the climate for taking risks, testing conjectures, and trying new
            approaches. Children also need to know that they must persevere and be ready for productive struggle; as
            that is when learning takes place. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_370" >Hiebert
                and Grouws (2007)</a> stated, &#8220;We use the word <em>struggle</em> to mean that students expend
            effort to make sense of mathematics, to figure something out that is not immediately apparent. . . . We do
            not mean the feelings of despair that some students can experience when little of the material makes
            sense&#8221; (p. 387). We need to encourage children to persist with material that is challenging but within
            their grasp and understandable.</p>
        <p>Here are some factors to keep in mind:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p>Avoid immediately identifying the right answer when a child states it. Give other children a chance
                    to consider whether they think the answer and approach are correct.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Expect and encourage student-to-student interactions, questions, discussions, and conjectures. Allow
                    plenty of time for discussions.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Encourage children to clarify previous knowledge and make explicit how they are relating this
                    previous knowledge to new ideas.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Promote curiosity and openness to new ideas and trying new things.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Talk about both right and wrong ideas in a nonevaluative and nonthreatening way and emphasize both as
                    places to learn.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Move less sophisticated ideas to more sophisticated thinking through coaching and strategic
                    questioning.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Use familiar contexts and story problems to build background and connect to children&#8217;s
                    experiences. Avoid using &#8220;naked numbers&#8221; as a starting point, as they do not encourage
                    strategy development.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Show samples of anonymous children&#8217;s work and allow children to critique the reasoning of
                    others. <em>The Great Math Tattle Battle</em> (Bowen, 2006) is an entertaining book largely about
                    correcting errors in double-digit addition calculations. You can share a &#8220;student
                    worksheet&#8221; that contains lots of mistakes and see whether your class can find and correct the
                    errors.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch12-smp-02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch12-smp-02">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>3 Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.</strong></p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>