<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Leveraging Mistakes and Misconceptions to Enhance Learning</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-09"><span id="page29" class="pagebreak" title="29" />Leveraging Mistakes and Misconceptions to Enhance Learning</h3>
</header>
<p>Children inevitably will make mistakes and exhibit misconceptions and na&#239;ve conceptions&#8212;especially when we pose challenging tasks in our classrooms. You may not want to highlight a child&#8217;s mistake or misconception because you are concerned that it might embarrass the child or confuse the struggling learners in your classroom. How we choose to treat mistakes and misconceptions in the classroom can have a tremendous effect on children&#8217;s perceptions about learning and themselves as learners.</p>
<p>When mistakes, misconceptions, and na&#239;ve conceptions are perceived and used (explicitly or implicitly) to judge how &#8220;smart&#8221; someone is, children want to hide their mistakes as well as their lack of understanding. Children can develop a fixed mindset in which they believe their intelligence is set and cannot be further developed through effort (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_31" >Dweck, 2006</a>), which means they are very unlikely to persevere in solving difficult problems that require productive struggle (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_23" >Boaler, 2013</a>). To them, difficult tasks are not perceived as opportunities to learn and improve, but rather as spotlights that highlight their inadequacies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_22" >Boaler, 2016</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_31" >Dweck, 2006</a>). On the other hand, children who adopt a growth mindset appreciate, take on, and persist with challenges because they perceive these as opportunities to learn. They also view mistakes as a chance to reconsider, revise, and improve their understanding. An online TED talk of Carol Dweck describing mindsets (titled &#8220;The power of believing you can improve&#8221;) is worth watching.</p>
<p>We want children to embrace a growth mind-set&#8212;to see mistakes, misconceptions, and struggles as opportunities for learning. In fact, this is a critical part of the teaching practice <em>support productive struggle in learning mathematics</em> (see <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_02.xhtml#Tab_2-1">Table 2.1</a>). Publicly valuing a mistake or misconception in class and having children think about why it is a mistake or misconception reinforces the important message that we all make mistakes and have misconceptions and can improve our understanding by examining them more closely. You can even design lessons around tasks that elicit common misconceptions or mistakes (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_24" >Bray, 2013</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_47" >Lim, 2014</a>). For example, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_24" >Bray (2013)</a> chose a task that required children to create thirds rather than halves or fourths because she knew some children would try to use halving to create the fractional parts. The task also elicited misconceptions about whether thirds meant three parts or three <em>equal</em> parts.</p>
<p>Flawed ideas, strategies, and solutions can come from either children&#8217;s work or from the teacher. If the mistakes or misconceptions come from children in the class, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_24" >Bray (2013)</a> offers some helpful suggestions for ensuring that the error maker is respected. For example, ask the child for permission to publicly share the mistake or misconception, give the child the choice to explain, acknowledge to the class where there is good reasoning involved in the child&#8217;s flawed thinking, and express appreciation for the opportunity to analyze the mistake or misconception as a way to improve their classmates&#8217; mathematical understanding.</p>
<p>Choosing to publicly treat mistakes and misconceptions in a positive light in your classroom will help children be risk takers and to persevere with challenging tasks. Rather than fearing mistakes and misunderstandings they will appreciate the powerful role these can play in learning.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>