<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Use Diagnostic Interviews</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header><h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-10">Use Diagnostic Interviews</h3>
</header>
<p>When ELLs do not get a correct answer or cannot explain a response, it is easy to assume it is a lack of mathematical understanding rather than a language issue. Diagnostic interviews provide a chance to observe what content or language the child does or does not understand. Consider the following task that could be part of a diagnostic interview focused on place value (grade 2): </p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-9">
<p>If you have 2 dimes and 3 pennies, how many cents do you have? </p>
</aside>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-stop-04"> 
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch05-stop-04">Stop and Reflect </h2>
</header>
<p>If a child missed this problem, what do you think might be the reason?</p>
</aside>
<p>There are numerous reasons children might have struggled with this problem, including a lack of understanding the mathematical concept of place value or the values of the coins. Or it could be due to vocabulary, such as not knowing what the word <em>cents</em> means. It also could be because of the sentence structure. Diagnostic interviews have found that the word <em>if,</em> and the implied &#8220;If . . . then&#8221; sentence structure common to mathematics but not in other reading, can prevent children from comprehending what the sentence is asking (a challenge for native English speakers as well) (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_136" >Fernandez, Anhalt, &amp; Civil, 2009</a>). The fact that there are many possible reasons why a child might not be able to solve a task, some related to language and others to mathematics, is a strong argument for using diagnostic interviews. If we misdiagnose the reason for a child&#8217;s struggles, our interventions will be misguided. </p>
<p>Diagnostic interviews also can be used before instruction in order to assess the mathematical and language needs of children. Hearing an ELL&#8217;s interpretation of a problem and seeing how he or she approaches the problem provide valuable insights. For example, a child might say &#8220;three <em>from</em> seventeen&#8221; rather than &#8220;seventeen <em>minus</em> three,&#8221; which indicates the way the child talks about subtraction at home. Using and connecting both ways of talking about subtraction strengthen everyone&#8217;s understanding.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>