<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>How Much to Tell and Not to Tell</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-08">How Much to Tell and Not to Tell</h3>
</header>
<p>One of the most perplexing dilemmas for teachers is how much information and direction to provide to children during mathematical inquiry. On one hand, telling can diminish what is learned and lower the level of cognitive demand in a lesson by eliminating the productive struggle that is key to conceptual understanding (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_38" >Hiebert &amp; Grouws, 2007</a>). On the other hand, telling too little can sometimes leave children floundering. Following are suggestions about three things that you need to tell children (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_37" >Hiebert et al., 1997</a>):</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p><em>Mathematical conventions:</em> Symbols, such as + and =, are conventions. Terminology is also a convention. As a rule of thumb, symbolism and terminology should be introduced <em>after</em> concepts have been developed, and then specifically as a means of expressing or labeling ideas.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Alternative methods:</em> If an important strategy does not emerge naturally from the children, then you should propose the strategy, being careful to identify it as &#8220;another&#8221; way, not the only or the preferred way.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Clarification or formalization of children&#8217;s methods:</em> Help children clarify or interpret their ideas and point out related concepts. A child may add 38 and 5 by noting that 38 and 2 more is 40 with 3 more making 43. This strategy can be related to the Make 10 strategy used to add <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render27.png" alttext="8 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>8</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn></mrow></math>. The selection of 40 as a temporary target in this child&#8217;s strategy is an important place-value concept. Drawing everyone&#8217;s attention to this connection can help other children see the connection while also building the confidence of the child who originally proposed the strategy.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The key is that you can share information as long as it does not solve the problem, remove the need for children to reflect on what they are doing, or prevent them from developing solution methods that make sense to them (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_37" >Hiebert et al., 1997</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>