<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Measurement</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 id="chap14-head3_3" class="title">Measurement</h3>
</header>
<p>Although the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> recommend limiting linear measurement in grades K&#8211;2 to whole units (e.g., inches, feet, centimeters, meters), fractions often emerge naturally in many measurement situations. Linear measurement involves identifying a length and then using that length as a measurement piece to determine the length of an object. For example, using the length of an inch, a child could use multiple copies of an inch to determine that a pencil is 5 inches long. Similarly, for fractions, a child can use a fraction strip that represents the unit fraction <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math305.png" alttext="1 third" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac></math> and then count or measure to show that it takes four of those to reach <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math305_1.png" alttext="4 over 3" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>4</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac></math>.</p>
<p>Measurement also includes time. The most obvious place to relate fractions and time is when telling time to the half hour and quarter hour. This would involve explicitly identifying the unit of time as an hour. Using an analog clock, you can emphasize how the minute hand sweeps a full turn around the clock face to measure an hour. Halfway around the face measures half that time or half of an hour. Half of that measures a quarter of the time by splitting the hour into four equal quantities of time. When second graders progress to telling time in smaller increments of 5-minute intervals, the connection between time and fractions becomes less obvious.</p>
<p>Measurement situations by their very nature consist of measuring a quantity that we could cut into as many equal-sized pieces as we need and so involve continuous quantities. As we will see, the measurement meaning of fractions connects well with the number line model.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
