<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Formulating Questions</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <p><span id="page405" class="pagebreak" title="405" /></p>
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Formulating Questions</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Statistics is about more than making graphs and analyzing data. It includes both asking and answering
            questions about our world. Data collection then has a purpose&#8212;to answer questions. <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_525" >Hourigan and Leavy (2015/2016)</a> call
            these <em>driving questions</em> because they motivate involvement in the processes of doing statistics. The
            analysis of the data should add information about some aspect of our world related to the questions we are
            asking. Political pollsters, advertising agencies, market researchers, census takers, wildlife managers, and
            hosts of others engage in this process of gathering data to answer questions and make informed decisions.
        </p>
        <p>Children, even young children, should have opportunities to generate their own questions, decide on
            appropriate data to help answer these questions, and determine methods of collecting data (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" >CCSSO, 2010</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_107" >NCTM, 2000</a>). The children&#8217;s book
            <em>The Best Vacation Ever</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_532" >Murphy,
                1997</a>) is about a little girl who gathers data from her family about what is important to them to
            help decide where the family would have the best vacation. This book, appropriate for first or second grade,
            nicely introduces the concept of gathering data to answer a question.</p>
        <p>Whether the question is teacher initiated or student initiated, children should engage in conversations about
            how well-defined the question is. For example, if the teacher asks, &#8220;How many brothers and sisters do
            you have?&#8221; there may be a need to discuss half siblings. If children want to know how many shoes each
            classmate owns, questions may arise as to whether they should count bedroom slippers and f lip-f lops.</p>
        <p>When children formulate the questions, the data they gather become more meaningful. How they organize the
            data and the techniques for analyzing them have a purpose. Often questions will come naturally in the course
            of a class discussion or from questions arising in other content areas. The next two sections suggest many
            ideas.</p>
        <header id="chap17-head3_4">
            <h3 class="title">Questions about &#8220;Me and My Classmates&#8221;</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Young children want to learn about each other, their families and pets, measures such as arm span or time to
            get to school, their likes and dislikes, and so on. At the preK&#8211;2 level, the easiest questions to deal
            with are those that can be answered by each class member contributing one piece of data. Here are a few
            ideas:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><em>Favorites:</em> TV shows, games, movies, ice cream, video games, fruit, seasons of the year, colors,
                sports, sports teams (when there are many possibilities, start by restricting the number of choices)
            </li>
            <li><em>Numbers:</em> Number of pets, siblings, or letters in name; hours watching TV, hours of sleep; time
                spent on the computer; bedtime</li>
            <li><em>Measures:</em> Height, arm span, length of foot, long-jump distance, seconds to run around the swing
                set on the playground, minutes spent traveling to school, daily temperature, shadow length</li>
        </ul>
        <p>These questions are good to get children started, but consider how to expand these questions by thinking how
            the information might be used to make decisions. For example, when thinking about about children&#8217;s
            favorite ice cream, you might ask, &#8220;Which three ice cream f lavors should we buy for a future
            celebration?&#8221; Or when asking about children&#8217;s favorite books, you could ask, &#8220;Which types
            of books should the school library buy?&#8221;</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>