<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Generalization with Algorithms</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 id="chap13-head3_3" class="title">Generalization with Algorithms</h3>
</header>
<p>When studying operations, children are often asked to explain how they solved a problem. As you listen to children&#8217;s explanations, listen for strategies that can be generalized. In fact, you can purposefully select numbers that are likely to elicit particular strategies. For example, the problem <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math275_01.png" alttext="504 minus 198" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="72px" class="informalequation"><mn>504</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>198</mn></math> will likely elicit the strategy of using a close benchmark number to make a problem easier. You might record a child&#8217;s mental strategy such as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math275_02.png" alttext="504 minus 200 plus 2" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="104px" class="informalequation"><mn>504</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>200</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>2</mn></math> on the board for the class to consider. You can ask, &#8220;Why did you use 200?&#8221; to help children track on this strategy. Follow up with a series of related computation problems for which children can use and discuss this strategy. By considering several examples <span id="page276" class="pagebreak" title="276"/>and their commonalities, children will be able to generalize and recognize when particular strategies can be useful.</p>
<p>Sets of problems are good ways for children to look for and describe patterns across the problems, patterns that build an understanding for the operation and related algorithms:</p>
<p class="text-center"><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math276_01.png" alttext="2 plus 8 space 5 plus 8 space 8 plus 9 space 8 plus 7 space 6 plus 8" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="217px" class="informalequation"><mn>2</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>9</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>7</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>8</mn></math></p>
<p>Once children have solved sets of related problems, you can start with general questions: What do you notice? How are the problems alike? Different? But you may need to focus their attention on what you want them to generalize by asking more specific questions: How can using 10 help you solve each problem? Why? In this set of problems, such a discussion can help children appreciate how the relationship between 8 and 10 can make the problems easier to solve. Children can also develop a better understanding of addition situations&#8212;for example, how if you add an amount to one addend (to make 10) you must subtract that same amount from the other addend. This strategy of Making 10 can be applied to any of the basic addition facts for 8 (and 7 and 9 for that matter), helping children with what is often some of the more challenging facts to learn.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>