<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>The Importance of Children&#8217;s Ideas</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch01-head-05">The Importance of Children&#8217;s Ideas</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Let&#8217;s take a minute to compare these two classrooms. By examining them more closely, you can see
            several important differences. These differences affect what is learned and who learns. Let&#8217;s consider
            the first difference: Who determines the procedure to use?</p>
        <p>In the first classroom, the children look at the numbers in the problem, think about the relationships
            between the numbers, and <em>then</em> choose a suitable computational strategy. They have developed several
            strategies to solve addition problems by exploring numbers and various representations, such as the open
            number line and the hundreds chart. Consequently, they are relating addition to various representations and
            employing number relationships in their addition strategies (taking numbers apart and putting them together
            differently). The children in the first classroom are being taught mathematics for
            understanding&#8212;<em>relational</em> understanding&#8212;and are developing the kinds of mathematical
            proficiency described earlier.</p><p> In the second classroom, the teacher provides one strategy for how to
            add&#8212;the standard algorithm. Although the standard algorithm is a valid strategy, the entire focus of
            the lesson is on the steps and procedures that the teacher has outlined. The teacher solicits no ideas from
            individual children about how to combine the numbers and instead is only able to find out who has and who
            has not been able to follow directions.</p>
        <p>When children have more choice in determining which strategies to use, as in the first classroom, there are
            more opportunities for learners to interact with each other and with the teacher as they share ideas and
            results, compare and evaluate strategies, challenge results, determine the validity of answers, and
            negotiate ideas. As a result, they can learn more content and make more connections. In addition, if
            teachers do not seek out and value children&#8217;s ideas, children may come to believe that mathematics is
            a body of rules and procedures that are learned by waiting for the teacher to tell them what to do. This
            view of mathematics&#8212;and <span id="page11" class="pagebreak" title="11" />what is involved in learning
            it&#8212;is inconsistent with mathematics as a discipline and with the learning theories described
            previously.</p>
        <p>A second difference between the two classrooms is the learning goals. Both teachers might write
            &#8220;understand two-digit addition&#8221; as the objective for the day. However, what is captured in
            &#8220;understand&#8221; is very different in each setting. In the first classroom, the teacher&#8217;s
            goals are for children to connect addition to what they already know and to see that two numbers can be
            combined in many different ways. In the second classroom, understanding is connected to being able to carry
            out the standard algorithm. The learning goals, and more specifically, how the teacher interprets the
            meaning behind the learning goals, affect what children learned.</p>
        <p>These lessons also differ in terms of how accessible they are&#8212;and this, in turn, affects <em>who</em>
            learns the mathematics. The first lesson is differentiated in that it meets children where they are in their
            current understanding. When a task is presented as &#8220;solve this in your own way,&#8221; it has multiple
            entry points, meaning it can be approached in a variety of ways. Consequently, children with different prior
            knowledge or learning strategies can figure out a way to solve the problem. This makes the task accessible
            to more learners. Then, as children observe strategies that are more efficient than their own, they develop
            new and better ways to solve the problem.</p>
        <p>In the second classroom, everyone has to do the problem in the same way. Children do not have the opportunity
            to apply their own ideas or to see that there are numerous ways to solve the problem. This may deprive
            children who need to continue working on the development of basic ideas of tens and ones as well as children
            who could easily find one or more ways to do the problem if only they were asked to do so. The children in
            the second classroom are also likely to use the same method to add all numbers instead of looking for more
            efficient ways to add based on the relationships between the numbers. For example, they are likely to add
            <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render17.png"
                alttext="29 plus 29" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>29</mn>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mn>29</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math> using the standard algorithm instead of thinking <math display="inline"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render18.png" alttext="30 plus 30"
                altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>30</mn>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mn>30</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math> and then take away 2. Recall in the discussion of learning theory the importance of building on
            prior knowledge and learning from others. Student-generated strategies, multiple approaches, and discussion
            about the problem in the first classroom represent the kinds of strategies that enhance learning for a range
            of learners.</p>
        <p>Children in both classrooms will eventually succeed at finding sums, but what they learn about
            addition&#8212;and about doing mathematics&#8212;is quite different. Understanding and doing mathematics
            involves generating strategies for solving problems, applying those approaches, seeing if they lead to
            solutions, and checking to see whether answers make sense. These activities were all present in the first
            classroom but not in the second. Consequently, children in the first classroom, in addition to successfully
            finding sums, will develop richer mathematical understanding, become more flexible thinkers and better
            problem solvers, remain more engaged in learning, and develop more positive attitudes toward learning
            mathematics.</p>
        <p>For more information about relational and instrumental understanding as well as the short-term and the
            long-term effects of teaching with each type of understanding as your goal, <strong>watch this video:</strong> <a
                    href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TW_RQXWiCFU"
                    class="ulink">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TW_RQXWiCFU</a>.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>