<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 16: Developing Geometric Reasoning and Concepts</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page363" class="pagebreak" title="363" /><span class="number">Chapter 16</span>
             </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
                Developing Geometric Reasoning and Concepts</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> What makes shapes alike and
                    different can be determined by an array of geometric properties (i.e., defining characteristics).
                    Shapes can be classified into a hierarchy of categories according to the properties they share. For
                    example, a square is like a rectangle because it has two pairs of parallel sides and four right
                    angles; some rectangles are different from squares because they do not have four equal sides.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Shapes can be described in terms
                    of their location in a plane or in space. Initially children use the words of everyday language such
                    as <em>above, below, next to, in front of,</em> and <em>beside</em> to describe location and then
                    later transition to simple coordinate systems to describe locations more precisely.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Shapes can be moved in a plane or
                    in space without changing the shape&#8217;s properties. These movements or transformations can be
                    described in terms of translations (slides), reflections (flips), and rotations (turns).</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> Visualization involves being able
                    to think about how two- and three-dimensional shapes look from different viewpoints and to mentally
                    change the position and size of shapes.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Geometry is a &#8220;network of concepts, ways of reasoning, and representation systems&#8221; used to
            explore and analyze shape and space (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_491"
                >Battista, 2007, p. 843</a>). This critical area of mathematics appears in
            everything from global positioning systems to computer animation. The National Council of Teachers of
            Mathematics identifies geometry as the core of mathematics in the early years, alongside the strand of
            number <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_107" >(NCTM, 2000)</a>.</p>
        <p><span id="page364" class="pagebreak" title="364" />This sentiment is also seen in the <em>Curriculum Focal
                Points</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_505" >NCTM, 2006</a>) in which
            geometry is included as one of three focal points in grades preK&#8211;1 and as a connection to the focal
            points in grade 2. The <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_506" >National Research
                Council (2009)</a> in its publication <em>Mathematics Learning in Early Childhood</em> also supports an
            emphasis on geometry in the early grades. All of these directives are clear that geometry instruction in
            grades preK&#8211;2 should help children learn more about the world they live in and also play a significant
            role in supporting the development of number concepts.</p>
        <p>The <em>Common Core State Standards</em> <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366"
                >(CCSSO, 2010)</a> and <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_505" >National Council of Teachers of Mathematics,
                2006</a>) describe these expectations across the PreK&#8211;2 grades:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>In prekindergarten and kindergarten, children are expected to identify and describe various two- and
                three-dimensional shapes and describe their relative position using everyday language (e.g., <em>above,
                    below, beside</em>). They should also draw and build shapes as well as compose larger shapes from
                smaller ones.</li>
            <li>In first grade, children should be able to distinguish between a shape&#8217;s defining attributes
                (e.g., number of sides, closed) and irrelevant attributes (e.g., color, size, orientation). They also
                work on composing shapes to create new shapes and begin to decompose shapes into smaller shapes.</li>
            <li>Second graders are expected to be able to recognize and draw shapes given specific attributes (e.g.,
                number of angles, equal length sides, &#8220;square&#8221; angles, and so on). They continue to work on
                decomposing shapes into smaller shapes.</li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>