<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Using Worthwhile Tasks</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title"><span id="page18" class="pagebreak" title="18" />Using Worthwhile Tasks</h2>
        </header>
        <p>When teachers teach mathematics <em>through</em> problem solving, the teacher needs to use worthwhile or rich
            tasks that promote reasoning and problem solving. Not surprisingly, this is one of the eight mathematics
            teaching practices identified in <em>Principles to Actions</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_51"
                >NCTM, 2014</a>) (see practice #2 in <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0002_02.xhtml#Tab_2-1">Table 2.1</a>). As a teacher you need to know what constitutes a
            worthwhile task and where to find, adapt, or create such tasks. A worthwhile task is problematic as
            <strong>this video demonstrates</strong> (<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XI3-52B0V6s"
                    class="ulink">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XI3-52B0V6s</a>). It poses a question for
            which (1) the children have no prescribed or memorized rules or methods, and (2) there is no perception that
            there is a specific &#8220;correct&#8221; solution method (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_37"
                >Hiebert et al., 1997</a>). Because the process or solution method is not
            obvious, justification is central to the task.</p>
        <p>A worthwhile task can take many forms. It might be open-ended or clearly defined; it may involve problem
            solving or problem posing; it may include words or be purely symbolic; it may develop concepts, procedures,
            or both; it may take only a few minutes to solve or weeks to investigate; or, it may involve a real-life
            scenario or be abstract. What makes the task worthwhile is that it is problematic as it engages children in
            figuring out how to solve it. Here are some tasks to try.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-con-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch05-con-01">Concepts: Cardinality (How Many), Decomposition of Numbers</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Four friends are playing in a playhouse at a park. The playhouse has two floors. Draw a picture to show
                how many friends might be on each floor. Can you find more than one way? How many ways do you think
                there are? Why?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-con-02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch05-con-02">Concept: Equality</h2>
            </header>
            <p class="aligncenter"><math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                    altimg="../images/render22.png" alttext="3 plus 6 equals 1 plus ____" altimg-height="246"
                    altimg-width="484" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mn>3</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>6</mn>
                        <mo>=</mo>
                        <mn>1</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mtext>____</mtext>
                    </mrow>
                </math></p>
            <p>Find a number for the blank so that the equation is true. Is there more than one number that will make
                the equation true? Why or why not? Can you find more than one way to find a number for the blank so that
                the equation is true?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-con-03">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch05-con-03">Procedure: Subtracting Two-Digit Whole Numbers</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Solve this problem in two different ways: <math display="inline"
                    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render23.png"
                    alttext="32 minus 17 equals ____" altimg-height="246" altimg-width="484" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mn>32</mn>
                        <mo>&#8722;</mo>
                        <mn>17</mn>
                        <mo>=</mo>
                        <mtext>____</mtext>
                    </mrow>
                </math>. For each way, explain how you solved it.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Note that a task can be problematic at first and then become routine as a child&#8217;s knowledge and
            experience grows. For example, the third example above could be a rich task to explore in grade 1 or 2, but
            would be &#8220;routine&#8221; for older or more mathematically advanced children. If the task immediately
            triggers an approach that the child goes directly to use, the task may be appropriate practice, but it is
            not a task that is likely to provide the child with new mathematical insights or knowledge.</p>
        <p>In thinking about the variety of worthwhile tasks that you can pose, it is important to incorporate tasks
            that develop both procedural fluency and conceptual understanding. Remember that <em>procedural fluency</em>
            and <em>conceptual understanding</em> are two of the five intertwined strands of mathematical proficiency
            discussed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>. Both are equally valuable in
            children&#8217;s development toward proficiency&#8212;so much so that they are included
            <span id="page19" class="pagebreak" title="19" />in one of the teaching practices from <em>Principles to
                Action</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_51" >NCTM. 2014</a>): <em>build
                procedural fluency from conceptual understanding</em> (see <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0002_02.xhtml#Tab_2-1">Table 2.1</a>). Using worthwhile tasks where children are able to
            use a variety of methods and strategies that make sense to them, are expected to explain and justify their
            approaches, and are encouraged to look for connections among strategies is precisely how children build
            procedural fluency from conceptual understanding.
        </p>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-01">High Levels of Cognitive Demand</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Engaging children in productive struggle is one of the teaching practices identified in <em>Principles to
                Actions</em> (NCTM, 2014) (see <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_02.xhtml#Tab_2-1">Table 2.1</a>). It is
            crucial to children&#8217;s learning mathematics with understanding (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_38"
                >Hiebert &amp; Grouws, 2007</a>). Posing worthwhile tasks sets the stage for
            this productive struggle because such tasks are cognitively demanding, meaning they require higher-level
            thinking. High-level, cognitively demanding tasks challenge children to make connections, analyze
            information, and draw conclusions (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_59" >Smith &amp;
                Stein, 1998</a>). On the other hand, low-level cognitively demanding tasks (also called <em>routine
                problems</em> or <em>lower-level tasks</em>) are straightforward and involve stating facts, following
            known procedures, and solving routine problems. As an example of different levels of tasks, consider the
            degree of reasoning required when asking children to find the sum of three given numbers versus asking them
            to find three numbers whose sum is 35. The first task only requires children to add three numbers. The
            second task requires them to use number sense to generate three reasonable numbers that will result in a
            given sum. As a consequence of working on this second task, children have potential opportunities to think
            about and use number relationships while they work on their computational skills for adding.</p>
        <p><a class="xref" href="chapter0002_03.xhtml#Tab_2-2">Table 2.2</a> shows a well-known framework that is useful
            in determining whether a task has the potential to challenge children (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_59"
                >Smith &amp; Stein, 1998</a>). As you read through the descriptors for
            low-level and high-level cognitively demanding tasks, you will notice that the low-level tasks are
            straightforward and routine, meaning that they do not engage children in productive struggle. Although there
            are appropriate times to use low-level cognitively demanding tasks, a heavy or sole emphasis on tasks of
            this type will not lead to a relational understanding of mathematics. When children (even very young
            children) know that struggle is an expected part of the process of doing mathematics, they embrace the
            struggle and feel success when they reach a solution (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_26"
                >Carter, 2008</a>).</p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_2-2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">2.2</span> Levels of cognitive
                    demand.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Low-Level Cognitive Demand Tasks</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>High-Level Cognitive Demand Tasks</strong></th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td><strong>Memorization</strong></td>
                    <td><strong>Procedures with Connections</strong></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Involve either memorizing or producing previously learned facts, rules, formulas, or
                                    definitions</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are routine in that they involve exact reproduction of previously learned procedures
                                </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Have no connection to related concepts</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Focus children&#8217;s attention on the use of procedures for the purpose of
                                    developing deeper levels of understanding of mathematical concepts and ideas</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Suggest general procedures that have close connections to underlying conceptual ideas
                                </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are usually represented in multiple ways (e.g., visuals, manipulatives, symbols,
                                    problem situations)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require that children engage with the conceptual ideas that underlie the procedures
                                    in order to successfully complete the task<span id="page20" class="pagebreak"
                                        title="20" /></p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td><strong>Procedures without Connections</strong></td>
                    <td><strong><em>Doing</em> Mathematics</strong></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Use procedures specifically called for</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are straightforward with little ambiguity about what needs to be done and how to do
                                    it</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Have no connection to related concepts</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are focused on producing correct answers rather than developing mathematical
                                    understanding</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require no explanations or explanations that focus on the procedure only</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Require complex and nonalgorithmic thinking (i.e., nonroutine&#8212;without a
                                    predictable, known approach)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require children to explore and to understand the nature of mathematical concepts,
                                    processes, or relationships</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Demand self-monitoring or self-regulation of children&#8217;s own cognitive processes
                                </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require children to access relevant knowledge in working through the task</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require children to analyze the task and actively examine task constraints</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Require considerable cognitive effort</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <p class="source">Reprinted with permission from <em>Mathematics Teaching in the Middle School</em>, Vol. 03,
            No. 05, pp. 344&#8211;350, copyright 1998, by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. All rights
            reserved.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>