<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>15 Building Measurement Concepts</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <p><span id="page330" class="pagebreak" title="330" /></p>
            <h1 class="title"><span class="number">Chapter 15</span></h1>
        </header>
        <header>
           
            <h1 class="title">Building Measurement Concepts</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Measurement involves a comparison
                    of an attribute of an item or situation with a unit that has the same attribute. Lengths are
                    compared to units of length, areas to units of area, time to units of time, and so on.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Before anything can be measured
                    meaningfully, it is necessary to understand the attribute be measured.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Estimation of measures and the
                    development of benchmarks for frequently used units of measure help children increase their
                    familiarity with units, preventing errors and aiding in the meaningful use of measurement.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> Measurement instruments (e.g.,
                    rulers) are tools that group multiple units so that you do not have to iterate a single unit
                    multiple times.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Measurement can be thought of as the &#8220;assignment of a numerical value to an attribute or characteristic
            of an object&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_482" >National Council of
                Teachers of Mathematics, 2003</a>, p. 1). It is one of the most useful mathematics content strands
            because it is an important component in everything from occupational tasks to life skills for the
            mathematically literate citizen. From gigabytes that measure amounts of information, font size on computers,
            recipes for a meal, to deciding whether you need the 6-foot or 12-foot power cord, we are surrounded with
            measurement concepts that apply to many real-world contexts and applications.</p>
        <p><span id="page331" class="pagebreak" title="331" />However, measurement is not an easy topic for children to
            understand. Data from international studies consistently indicate that children in the United States are
            weaker in the area of measurement than any other topic in the mathematics curriculum (Provasnik et al.,
            2010; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_488" >Thompson &amp; Preston, 2004</a>).</p>
        <p>In grades preK&#8211;2, the primary emphasis of measurement instruction is developing a conceptual
            understanding of the measurement process as well as the units and tools for measuring length and time.
            Kindergartners should learn to describe the length and weight of objects, directly comparing two objects
            using words such as <em>taller, shorter, heavier, lighter, more,</em> and <em>less</em> <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_3" >(CCSSO, 2010)</a>. By first grade, children
            should compare objects indirectly using a third object and understand how to use multiple copies of a unit
            to measure the length of an object. Second graders move to using standard measuring tools, such as rulers,
            yardsticks, and meter sticks, and to using number lines to represent whole numbers as lengths from zero.
            They also begin to explore the inverse relationship between the size of the measuring unit and the measure
            (i.e., number of units used). First graders begin to tell and write time in hours and half-hours and second
            graders extend that to 5-minute intervals and use a.m. and p.m. Money is also included under the study of
            measurement but does not occur until second grade.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>