<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Meanings of Fractions for PreK&#8211;2 Children</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Meanings of Fractions for PreK&#8211;2 Children</h2>
</header>
<p>Understanding fractions involves much more than recognizing that <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math304.png" alttext="3 over 4" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>3</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac></math> is three shaded parts of a shape partitioned into four sections. Fractions have numerous meanings and can be represented as areas, sets, or lengths. The different meanings include part&#8211;whole, division, measurement, ratio, and operator. To help children develop a comprehensive understanding of fractions, researchers recommend that children have experiences with all the meanings of fractions (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_432" >Clarke, Roche, &amp; Mitchell, 2008</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_444" >Lamon, 2012</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_458" >Siegler et al., 2010</a>). For grades preK&#8211;2, we emphasize part&#8211;whole, division as equal sharing, and measurement.</p>
<header>
<h3 id="chap14-head3_1" class="title">Part&#8211;Whole</h3>
</header>
<p>One of the most commonly used meanings of fractions is the part&#8211;whole relationship. In early childhood classrooms, part&#8211;whole fractions are typically represented by shading part of a whole that has been partitioned into equal parts&#8212;for example, three-fourths of a rug is thought of as three parts <em>out of</em> four. Part&#8211;whole situations can also be described as part of a group of children (one-third of the class brought their lunch) or as part of a length (we walked one and one-half miles). The first example (shading part of a whole to indicate area) and the third example (walked <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math304_1.png" alttext="1 1 half" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="28" class="informalequation">
<mn>1</mn><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac></math> miles) involve continuous quantities, that is, quantities that are measured and that can be cut into as many equal parts as we wish. The second example (one-third of the class) involves discrete quantities, that is, quantities that are counted and cannot be divided further (e.g., people, chairs, cars).</p>
<p>Using the part&#8211;whole meaning of fractions can be an effective starting point for building meaning of fractions (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_433" >Cramer &amp; Whitney, 2010</a>). However, too often instruction is based only on the part&#8211;whole relationship, which limits children&#8217;s ability to reason about fractions as numbers (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_445" >Mack 2001</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_450" >Olive &amp; Vomvoridi 2006</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_15" >Streef land 1991</a>). In particular, when children are able to only think of fractions as part&#8211;whole, they tend to struggle with making sense of fractions greater than one (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_441" >Hackenberg, 2007</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_463" >Thompson &amp; Saldanha 2003</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_464" >Tzur 1999</a>). For example, when <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math304.png" alttext="3 over 4" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>3</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac></math> only makes sense as three parts <em>out of</em> four, children find it difficult to make sense of  <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math304_2.png" alttext="5 over 3" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>5</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac></math>  as five parts <em>out of</em> three. Part&#8211;whole reasoning also does not necessarily result in children thinking about the relative size of the part to the size of the whole (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_461" >Steffe &amp; Olive, 2010</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>