<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>The Process of Doing Statistics</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header id="chap17-head3_3">
            <h3 class="title">The Process of Doing Statistics</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Just as learning addition involves much more than the procedure for combining, doing statistics is much more
            than being able to create a bar graph or line plot. To <em>meaningfully</em>
            engage children in learning and doing statistics, they should be involved in the full process, from asking
            and defining questions to collecting and analyzing data to interpreting results. This chapter is organized
            around this process, which is presented in <a class="xref" href="#fig_17_3">Figure 17.3</a>.</p>
			<figure class="figure lc_img66 fx-lightbox" id="fig_17_3">
            <header>
                <h3 class="title"><span class="label">Figure</span> <span class="number">17.3</span> Process of doing
                    statistics.</h3>
            </header>
        </figure>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>Develop Statistical Questions</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02022; Use interesting, relevant questions for the students to explore</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Engage students in generating questions that can be answered using statistics</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Focus on questions that include variability</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Consider what data will answer the question:</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02013; Include questions that generate numerical data</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02013; Include data that can be gathered within the classroom or school</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Gather and Organize Data</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02022; Decide who will be asked the question(s) or what source(s) will be used for gathering data</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Outline a plan for collecting the data</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Choose the best way to record the data</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Carry out the data collection plan</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Choose a Data Analysis Plan</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02022; Decide which representation will best tell the story related to your question(s)</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Prepare those data displays (by hand or using technology)</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Select ways to interpret the data (combining or comparing)</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Carry out the analysis plan</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Interpret the Findings</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02022; Use representations from #3 to answer the question(s) from #1</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Look at the shape of the data if in a graphical representation</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02022; Explore questions such as:</p>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02013; What does our data tell us about our class? And, what doesn't it tell us?</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02013; What might we infer?</p></li>
<li><p>&#x02013; What new questions might we have?</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>&#x02022; Look for factual information as well as inferences that go beyond the data</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ol>
        <p><a class="xref" href="#Tab_17_2">Table 17.2</a> provides a snapshot of the most common errors and
            misconceptions children will demonstrate with statistical thinking, along with suggestions about how to help
            them work through these issues. As you read through the chapter, look back at these common misconceptions
            and consider how particular activities and the questions you ask can help mitigate these concerns and help
            promote your children&#8217;s ability to do statistics.</p>
        <p><span id="page403" class="pagebreak" title="403" /></p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img50" id="Tab_17_2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">17.2</span> Common errors and
                    misconceptions in doing statistics and how to help.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col">
                        <strong><span id="page404" class="pagebreak" title="404" />Misconception/Error</strong>
                    </th>
                    <th scope="col">
                        <strong>What It Looks Like</strong>
                    </th>
                    <th scope="col">
                        <strong>How to Help</strong>
                    </th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        1. Child asks mathematical questions and not statistical questions for <em>driving
                            questions.</em>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        When asked to generate a statistical question (<em>driving question</em>), child asks questions
                        that only involve computations and do not require predictions or interpretation and does not
                        rely on the context. For example, the child suggests questions such as these:
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>How old is my dog?</li>
                            <li>How many days are in April?</li>
                            <li>How long is the playground?</li>
                            <li>How much time did Avery spend on homework last night?</li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>Give examples and nonexamples of statistical questions and ask children to identify the
                                differences.</li>
                            <li>Help the child to modify his/her nonstatistical question so that it becomes a
                                statistical question.</li>
                            <li>Emphasize that statistical questions rely on the context, can only be answered by
                                collecting data, and involve some sense of variability (i.e., if there is only one
                                answer, chances are good that the question is not a statistical question).</li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        2. When organizing data, the child simply lists the data and does not use categories. </td>
                    <td>
                        After the child collects data, say about her classmates&#8217; favorite book, the child lists
                        each classmate&#8217;s name along with the name of the favorite book. </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>Engage the child in categorization activities (such as Activities 17.3&#8211;17.5 and
                                those listed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0017_03.xhtml#Tab_17_3">Table 17.3</a> that
                                are based in social studies and science content).</li>
                            <li>Have the child compare her list of data to a list that has been categorized. Ask the
                                child to try to articulate the difference between the two ways.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        3. Child sorts objects based on one rule and ignores additional rules. </td>
                    <td>
                        The child is asked to sort attribute materials using the rule &#8220;small triangles.&#8221; He
                        includes large triangles in the group because he is focused only on the attribute of the shape
                        being a triangle. </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>Initially use sorting materials that have explicit attributes that are easily
                                identifiable (such as attribute blocks, pattern blocks, teddy bear counters). Once the
                                child demonstrates success with sorting, you can use sorting materials whose attributes
                                are more difficult to describe (such as shoes and seashells).</li>
                            <li>Reduce the attribute materials to a set that differs only on two attributes and have the
                                child do several sorts. Increase the number of attributes as the child demonstrates
                                successful sorts.</li>
                            <li>As the child participates in daily cleanup routines, have the child describe to you why
                                he is returning certain materials to particular bins.</li>
                            <li>Have the child identify the sorting rules to ensure he understands which attributes to
                                track on.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        4. When looking at a graph, the child focuses only on single data points instead of looking at
                        the data set as a whole. </td>
                    <td>
                        When asked to describe something about the class graph that shows the ways children travel to
                        school, the child explains, &#8220;That&#8217;s my sticky note there! I ride the bus.&#8221;
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>Focus discussions on the shape of the entire data set.</li>
                            <li>To help children look at the data set as a whole, have them compare the shapes of two
                                picture graphs, two bar graphs, or two line plots.</li>
                            <li>If you have children draw a picture or write their names on sticky notes and then place
                                those onto graphs, after an initial discussion, replace those sticky notes with blank
                                ones so the children no longer see their particular data.</li>
                            <li>Lay sheer material, such as a sheer curtain, over the data display so that children can
                                still see the shape of the data but not individual pieces of data.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
		<figure class="Table lc_img50" id="Tab_17_3">
<header><h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">17.3</span> Classification ideas related to social studies and science.</h2></header></figure>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">
<strong>Social Studies</strong> </th>
<th scope="col">
<strong>Science</strong> </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Places in the United States and outside the United States</li>
<li>Country or state of origin of classmates</li>
<li>Past, present, and future events</li>
<li>Goods (such as, bread, milk, apples, pants, socks, shoes) and services (such as, waiting tables at a restaurant, mowing yards, repairing cars)</li>
<li>Continents and oceans</li>
<li>U.S. presidents according to the state where they were born</li>
<li>Availability of items (scarce, average, abundant)</li>
<li>Jobs in the local community</li>
<li>Climates in the United States</li></ul></td>
<td>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li>Sensory descriptors for items (hard/soft, rough/smooth, cold/warm, loud/quiet, sweet/sour/bitter/salty, high/low, and bright/dull)</li>
<li>Relative size or weight of a collection of objects (big/little, large/small, heavy/light, wide/thin, long/short)</li>
<li>Position of objects found in the classroom (over/under, in/out, above/below, left/right)</li>
<li>Speed (fast/slow) of different animals (ants, turtles, snakes, cheetahs) or types of transportation (car, bicycle, airplane, walking)</li>
<li>Materials or objects that float or sink in water</li>
<li>Weather observations (sunny, cloudy, raining, snowing)</li>
<li>Substances that will or will not dissolve in water</li>
<li>Characteristics of plants (edible/nonedible, flowering/nonflowering, evergreen/deciduous)</li>
<li>Physical characteristics of animals (body coverings or methods of movement)</li>
<li>Other characteristics of animals (wild/tame, water homes/land homes, hibernate/do not hibernate, migrate/do not migrate, camouflage/no camouflage</li></ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
    </section>
</body>

</html>