<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Different Approaches to Teaching Basic Facts</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Different Approaches to Teaching Basic Facts</h2>
</header>
<p>Three somewhat different approaches to teaching basic facts have been used in the United States. We briefly describe the ros and cons of each a roach in this section.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_1">Memorization</h3>
</header>
<p>This approach moves from presenting concepts of addition and subtraction straight to memorization of facts, devoting no time to develop reasoning strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_308" >Baroody, Bajwa, &amp; Eiland, 2009</a>). With this approach, children have 100 separate addition facts for the various combinations of 0 through 9 to memorize. They may even have to memorize subtraction separately, bringing the total to over 200! There is strong evidence that this method simply does not work. Too many fourth and fifth graders have not developed fluency with their addition and subtraction facts and continue to count on their fingers. You may be tempted to say that you learned your facts in this manner, as did many other children. However, studies as long ago as <span id="page183" class="pagebreak" title="183"/>1935 found that many children independently develop a variety of strategies for learning basic facts despite the amount of isolated drill they may experience (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_316" >Brownell &amp; Chazal, 1935</a>). You may have even independently found your own strategies for difficult basic facts.</p>
<p>Memorization does not encourage children to develop strategies that could help them master their basic facts. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_307" >Baroody (2006)</a> points out three limitations to learning basic facts this way.</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p><strong><em>Inefficiency.</em></strong> There are too many facts to memorize in a rote fashion.</p></li>
<li><p><strong><em>Inappropriate applications.</em></strong> Children misapply the facts and don&#8217;t check their work.
</p></li>
<li><p><strong><em>Inflexibility.</em></strong> Children don&#8217;t learn flexible strategies for finding sums and, therefore, continue to count by ones.</p></li> 
</ul>
<p>Notice how a memorization approach works against the development of <em>fluency</em> (i.e., being able to flexibly, accurately, efficiently, and appropriately solve problems).</p>
<p>When taught basic facts via memorization, many struggling learners and children with learning disabilities continue to use counting strategies because they have not had explicit instruction on reasoning strategies (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_333" >Mazzocco, Devlin, &amp; McKenney, 2008</a>). In addition, drill can cause unnecessary anxiety and undermine children&#8217;s interest and confidence in mathematics (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_315" >Boaler, 2016</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>