<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Do&#8217;s and Don&#8217;ts for Teaching Basic Facts</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Do&#8217;s and Don&#8217;ts for Teaching Basic Facts</h2>
</header>
<p><span id="page204" class="pagebreak" title="204"/>We close this chapter with some important reminders for effectively teaching basic facts. This is such an important life skill for all learners that it is important that we, as teachers, use what research suggests are the most effective practices.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_23">What to Do</h3>
</header>
<p>The following recommendations can support the development of quick recall.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>Ask children to self-monitor.</em> As with all learning, having a sense of what you know, what you don&#8217;t know, and what you need to learn is important. This certainly holds true with learning basic facts. Have children identify which basic facts are their personal &#8220;toughies&#8221; and continue to work with reasoning strategies to help them derive those facts.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Focus on self-improvement.</em> Emphasize a growth mindset, as described in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>, by helping children notice that they are getting quicker or learning new facts or strategies. For example, children can keep track of how long it took them to go through their &#8220;fact stack&#8221; and then two days later, work through the same stack and check to see whether they were quicker (or more accurate or used a new strategy) compared to the last time.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Limit practice to short time segments.</em> Long periods (10 minutes or more) for basic fact practice are not effective. Instead use the first 5 to 10 minutes of the day, or extra time before lunch, to provide continued support on fact development and retention without using mathematics instructional time that is better devoted to other topics. You can project numerous examples of double ten-frames in relatively little time. Or you can pose a story problem each day and take 5 minutes to share strategies. You can also have children pair up and go through each of their individualized sets of f lash cards in 2 minutes.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Work on facts over time.</em> Rather than do a unit on fact memorization, work on facts throughout the year, working on one reasoning strategy or set of facts until it is learned, then move on. Focus on foundational facts first and be sure those are mastered before teaching derived fact strategies.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Involve families.</em> Share your plan for how children will work on learning facts over the year, including that you will first emphasize reasoning strategies. Ask family members to help children by using reasoning strategies when they don&#8217;t know a fact.
</p></li>
<li><p><em>Make fact practice enjoyable.</em> There are many games and activities, including those in this chapter, that are designed to reinforce facts without competition and without inducing anxiety.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Use technology.</em> Technology offers children immediate feedback and reinforcement, helping them to self-monitor.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Emphasize the importance of knowing their facts.</em> Without trying to create pressure or anxiety, emphasize to children that they must learn their basic facts and learn them well because they will be using them all the time in real life and throughout the rest mathematics.</p></li> 
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>