<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Pedagogy</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap7-head3_2">Pedagogy</h3>
</header>
<p>When stakeholders ask questions that point to their belief that mathematics is best learned through direct instruction&#8212;just as they learned it&#8212;it is important to provide a rationale for why mathematics teaching and learning might be different now.<span id="page98" class="pagebreak" title="98"/></p>
<header>
<h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_3">Teacher as Facilitator</h4>
</header>
<p>Recall that two important findings about how children develop conceptual understanding is through (1) engaging in productive struggle and (2) making connections explicit (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_223" >Hiebert &amp; Grouws, 2007</a>). Related to these two important research findings, compare the difference between being <em>shown</em> how to do something (e.g., &#8220;This is how you add; now practice this&#8221;) and <em>developing</em> an understanding of something (e.g., &#8220;How many ways can you partition 6? How do you know if you have found all the ways?&#8221;). Ask,
&#8220;In what ways are children learning about addition? About subtraction? How do the different ways support eventual mastery of the basic facts?&#8221; Point out that skills are still important, and children benefit by generating their own procedures. As children explore carefully selected tasks they engage in productive struggle and have the opportunity to make connections among mathematical ideas and strategies.
</p>
<p>Address the role of the teacher as <em>organizer</em> (organizes a worthwhile mathematical task), <em>facilitator</em> (facilitates student interaction), and <em>questioner</em> (asks questions to help children make connections or to deepen their understanding). Remind parents that just because the teacher is not <em>telling</em> their child what to do does not mean that the teacher is not teaching. The teacher is orchestrating the class so that each child develops the appropriate connections, understands the mathematics, has the ability to solve problems and is developing a disposition that they can do mathematics.
</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_4">Cooperative Groups</h4>
</header>
<p>Parents and other stakeholders may also wonder about how frequently their child works in cooperative groups because this may differ from their own mathematics learning experiences. Help parents see the role of others in their learning as they solved the problems and as they heard solutions from those who were working at other tables. Connect that experience to the value of cooperative learning. You can do this in a variety of ways:</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>Include a feature in your parent newsletter.</em> Early in the year, you can feature cooperative learning and address its importance across content areas. In mathematics, this can include the following benefits: hearing different strategies, building meaning, designing solution strategies, and justifying approaches&#8212;all of which are essential to building a strong understanding of mathematics and important life skills.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Send home letters introducing math units.</em> If you are about to teach a unit on adding and subtracting two-digit numbers, a letter can help parents know the important aspects of the content. This is a great time to mention that children will work in groups so that they can see different ways to add or subtract two numbers.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Do a cooperative learning mathematics activity at a family math night or back-to-school event.</em> Use a task that lends itself to assigning roles to different members of the group and won&#8217;t take long to solve. Have parents work with two to three others to solve the task.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Invite parents to assist in a mathematics group assignment.</em> Seeing firsthand the dialogue and thinking that happens in cooperative groups can go a long way in illustrating how valuable cooperative groups can be!</p></li>
</ol>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch_07_teach01">
<header><h4 class="title" id="ch_07_teach01">Teaching Tip</h4></header>

<p>Being proactive about communicating the <em>benefits</em> of cooperative learning, as well as how you build in <em>individual accountability</em> and <em>shared responsibility,</em> will go a long way toward converting parent concerns into parent support.</p>
</aside>
<p>Parents may initially worry that children working in groups are simply copying from other children and not learning. Share strategies you use to build in individual accountability <span id="page99" class="pagebreak" title="99"/>and shared responsibility. For example, teachers may ask each child to draw or write a solution in his or her notebook.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_5">Use of Technology</h4>
</header>
<p>Parents may be avid users of technology yet still have concerns about their child&#8217;s use of calculators and computers in grades K&#8211;2, when children haven&#8217;t yet mastered their basic facts for addition and subtraction. Even though research overwhelmingly finds that children using calculators achieve at least as well as those not using calculators, calculators are widely blamed for children&#8217;s lack of reasoning and sense making. Reassure parents that children <em>will</em> learn the basic facts and procedures and the calculator can support that learning. Consider sharing or doing any of the following activities:</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print01">
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>Type in <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render37.png" alttext="5 plus 5 equals space" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>=</mo><mtext>&#160;</mtext></mrow></math>. Continue to push the = key (most calculators continue to add 5 every time you push =). What patterns do you notice as you count by fives?</p></li>
<li><p>Broken Key. Suppose the following keys do not work on your calculator: 5 and 8. Figure out another way to add or subtract these numbers using the calculator: <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render38.png" alttext="6 plus 5   15 minus 6   35 plus 28" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn><mtext>&#8195;</mtext><mn>15</mn><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>6</mn><mtext>&#8195;</mtext><mn>35</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>28</mn></mrow></math></p></li>
</ol>
</aside>
<p>Debrief parents about the ways in which the calculator can be used as a learning tool. An important message to parents is that mastery of basic facts should <em>not</em> be a prerequisite to using a calculator. Instead, children and teachers should be making good decisions about whether a calculator supports or detracts from doing the problem at hand (and learning the intended mathematics).</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="Teaching Tip 2">
<header><h4 class="title" id="ch_07_teach02">Teaching Tip</h4></header>

<p>Families need to see specific ways to use the calculator to support learning of numbers and operations. Sharing or posting calculator activities is one way to help them understand the role calculators can play in young children&#8217;s learning.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>