<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>The Nuts and Bolts of Differentiating Instruction</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">The Nuts and Bolts of Differentiating Instruction</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Differentiation is an instructional approach that requires a shift from focusing on the
            &#8220;middle-of-the-road&#8221; child to attending to all children. As overwhelming as this may sound,
            differentiation does not require a teacher to create individualized lessons for each and every child in the
            classroom. Rather, it requires emphasizing three basic ideas (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_113"
                >Sousa &amp; Tomlinson, 2011</a>):</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>Planning lessons around meaningful content, grounded in authenticity.</li>
            <li>Recognizing each child&#8217;s readiness, interest, and approach to learning.</li>
            <li>Connecting content and learners by modifying content, process, product, and the learning environment.
            </li>
        </ul>
        <header>
            <h3 id="ch04-head-01" class="title">Planning Meaningful Content, Grounded in Authenticity</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Before you begin to think about differentiation, you first need to know where you want your children to
            &#8220;be&#8221; at the end of the learning experience. You must be explicitly aware of the content that
            children should know, understand, and be able to do after engaging in a given lesson or sequence of lessons.
            This awareness enables you to effectively guide children&#8217;s learning by varying or differentiating
            instruction. If you do not have a clear idea about the specific learning outcomes, identifying how and when
            to differentiate can be difficult. In fact, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_114"
                >Tomlinson (1999)</a> claims that &#8220;If the &#8216;stuff&#8217; [content]
            is ill conceived, the &#8216;how&#8217; [differentiation] is doomed&#8221; (p. 16).</p>
        <p>Note that the content must be authentic and grounded in important mathematics that emphasizes the big ideas
            in ways that require children to develop relational understanding. Authentic content engages children with
            the heart of mathematics by requiring them to be problem solvers and creators of knowledge. Through this
            kind of engagement, children also develop a productive disposition toward mathematics and see it as
            sensible, useful, and worthwhile.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>