<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>14 Exploring Early Fraction Concepts</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page303" class="pagebreak" title="303" /><span class="number">Chapter 14</span>
             </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
                Exploring Early Fraction Concepts</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Fractions are numbers. They
                    describe a quantity and can be compared with other quantities.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Equal sharing is a way to build on
                    whole-number knowledge to introduce fractional amounts as equal shares or equal-sized portions of a
                    whole.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Partitioning and iterating are two
                    ways children can reason about fractions. Partitioning can be thought of as cutting or splitting an
                    amount equally. Iterating can be thought of as physically or mentally making copies of a piece, such
                    as a unit fraction, and counting those pieces.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> Three categories of models can be
                    used when working with fractions&#8212;area (e.g., <em>one-fourth</em> of a garden), length (e.g.,
                    <em>three-quarters</em> of an inch), and set (e.g., <em>one-half</em> of the class).</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Fractions are one of the most important topics students need to understand to be successful in algebra and
            beyond, yet it is an area that presents a considerable challenge for students. NAEP results have
            consistently shown that students have a weak understanding of fraction concepts (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_460" >Sowder &amp; Wearne, 2006</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_466" >Wearne &amp;
            Kouba, 2000</a>). This lack of understanding is then translated into difficulties with fraction computation,
            decimal and percent concepts, and the use of fractions in other areas of mathematics, such as algebra (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_426" >Bailey, Hoard, Nugent, &amp; Geary,
                2012</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_429" >Brown &amp; Quinn, 2007</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_448" >National Mathematics Advisory Panel,
                2008</a>). <span id="page304" class="pagebreak" title="304" />You can help children in the primary
            grades begin to construct a solid foundation for fraction concepts that will prepare them for the more
            complex concepts and skills that come later in the elementary and middle school curricula.</p>
        <p>The <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_122"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>) recommend that formal instruction on fraction concepts begin
            in third grade. However, you can develop informal knowledge and understanding about fractions before third
            grade by building on children&#8217;s everyday experiences of fair sharing. In fact, the <em>Common Core
                State Standards</em> include at both the first and second grade levels partitioning geometric shapes
            into equal shares. In first grade, children are introduced to fractions through the partitioning of circles
            and rectangles into two and four equal-sized shares (Standard 1.G.A.3). First graders are also expected to
            know the vocabulary <em>halves, fourths,</em> and <em>quarters</em> and to tell time to the nearest half
            hour. Second graders extend this work to partitioning circles and rectangles into <em>thirds</em> or three
            equal-sized shares (Standard 2.G.A.3). Although neither the <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_447" >National Council of Teachers of Mathematics,
                2006</a>) nor the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_122"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>) identify informal fractional ideas for the preK and
            kindergarten levels, even young children experience plenty of everyday opportunities that involve fair
            sharing that can prepare them for making sense of fractions.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>