<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Take from 10</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_17">Take from 10</h3>
</header>
<p>This strategy capitalizes on children&#8217;s knowledge of the combinations that make 10 and decomposing the initial value into 10 and ones. For example, consider the problem <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math196.png" alttext="16 minus 7" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="47" class="informalequation">
<mn>16</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>7</mn></math>. Children would pull apart the 16 into <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math196_1.png" alttext="10 plus 6" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="37" class="informalequation">
<mn>10</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>6</mn></math>, and then subtract <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math196_2.png" alttext="10 minus 7" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="47" class="informalequation">
<mn>10</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>7</mn></math> (because they know <span id="page196" class="pagebreak" title="196"/>this fact). They would then add the resulting 3 to the remaining 6 to get 9. Try this strategy on these examples:</p>
<p class="text-center"><math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math196_3.png" alttext="15 space minus space 8 space equals space space space 17 space minus space 9 space equals space space space 13 space minus space 8 space equals" altimg-height="36" altimg-width="217" class="informalequation">
<mn>15</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>-</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>17</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>-</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>9</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>13</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>-</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo></math></p>
<p>This is a great reasoning strategy, although it may seem uncomfortable at first. Use story problems to make it easier for children to keep track of the quantities. For example, for <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math196_4.png" alttext="14 minus 8" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="47" class="informalequation">
<mn>14</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>8</mn></math>, you can use a story problem such as &#8220;Andy had 14 toy animals. He gave 8 to a friend. How many toy animals does Andy have left?&#8221; To reason through the strategy, children can either use manipulatives or imagine taking the 14 toy animals and splitting them into a group of 10 and a group of 4. Then they take 8 from the group of 10 to get 2. They add the 2 to the 4 to see they have 6 left.</p>
<p>The Take from 10 strategy, although not as well known in the United States, is consistently used in high-performing countries. If you have children from other countries in your classroom, they may know this strategy and can share it with others. It can be used for all subtraction facts having minuends greater than 10 (the &#8220;toughies&#8221;) by just knowing how to subtract from 10 and knowing addition facts with sums less than 10. The next activity uses the apple tree context to help children work through the Take from 10 strategy.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch10_act13">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch10_act13">Activity 10.13 Apples in Two Trees</h2></header>
<p><strong>CCSS-M: 1.OA.B.3; 1.OA.B.4; 1.OA.C.6; 2.OA.B.2</strong></p>
<p> Adapting <a class="xref" href="chapter0010_17.xhtml#ch10_act12">Activity 10.12</a>, explain that each ten-frame is a different tree and that you will tell them how many apples fall out of the &#8220;full&#8221; tree. The children&#8217;s task is to tell how many total apples are left on the trees. Ask children to explain their thinking.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>


