<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 11: Developing Whole-Number Place-Value Concepts</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page206" class="pagebreak" title="206" /><span class="number">Chapter 11</span>
                </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
                Developing Whole-Number Place-Value Concepts</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Sets of ten (and tens of ten) can
                    be perceived as single entities or units. For example, &#8220;three sets of ten and two
                    singles&#8221; is base-ten language to describe 32 single objects.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> The positions of digits in numbers
                    determine which size group they count. This is the major organizing principle of place-value
                    numeration and is central to developing number sense.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> There are patterns to the way that
                    numbers are formed. For example, each decade has a symbolic pattern reflective of the 0-to-9
                    sequence (e.g., 20, 21, 22, . . . 29).</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> The groupings of ones, tens, and
                    hundreds can be taken apart in different but equivalent ways. For example, beyond the typical way to
                    decompose 256 into 2 hundreds, 5 tens, and 6 ones, 256 can be represented as 1 hundred, 14 tens, and
                    16 ones, or 25 tens and 6 ones. Decomposing and composing multidigit numbers in flexible ways is a
                    necessary foundation for computational estimation and exact computation.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>5.</strong></span> Children progress through three
                    levels of understanding the concept of &#8220;ten.&#8221; First, one ten means ten ones. Children
                    then progress to seeing ten as a unit (i.e., as one thing) but rely on physical or mental models to
                    work with units of ten. Finally, they are able to easily work with units of ten as numbers and are
                    no longer dependent on physical or mental base-ten models.<span id="page207" class="pagebreak"
                        title="207" /></li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>6.</strong></span> Children can develop place-value
                    understanding as a <em>result</em> of finding their own methods of adding and subtracting two- and
                    three-digit numbers. Relying on their own methods requires that they focus on the value of the
                    numbers involved, reinforcing the development of place value concepts.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>7.</strong></span> &#8220;Really big&#8221; numbers
                    are difficult to conceptualize and are best understood in terms of familiar real-world referents.
                    The number of people who can fill the seats in the local high school auditorium is, for example, a
                    meaningful referent for the number 1,000 for children who have visited that venue.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Number sense is linked to a complete understanding of place value and our base-ten number system. In
            kindergarten and first grade, children count up to 100 and 120, respectively, and consider patterns in these
            numbers. But, most importantly, they begin to be able to think about groups of ten objects as one thing or
            as a unit. This understanding takes time for children to develop and is a critical milestone for young
            children (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_359" >Wright, Martland, &amp; Stafford,
                2008</a>). But in the meantime, they can and should explore larger numbers as they enrich their
            understanding of &#8220;ten-ness.&#8221; The <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_348" >CCSSO, 2010</a>) recommend that
            kindergartners work with numbers between 11 and 19 by putting them together (composing) and taking them
            apart (decomposing) into tens and ones using physical materials and drawings. By second grade, these initial
            ideas are extended to three-digit numbers. A firm understanding of place value with whole numbers lays the
            foundation for work with decimals as well as larger numbers in upper elementary and middle school.</p>
        <p>A significant part of the development of place value understanding includes children putting numbers together
            (composing) and taking them apart (decomposing) in a wide variety of ways as they solve addition and
            subtraction problems with two- and three-digit numbers. In other words, computation instruction should be
            interwoven with place-value instruction. Children&#8217;s efforts in simultaneously making sense of place
            value and computation enhance their ability to invent their own computation strategies and strengthen their
            place value understanding.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>