<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Teaching and Assessing Children with Learning Disabilities</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Teaching and Assessing Children with Learning Disabilities</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Children with learning disabilities have very specific difficulties with perceptual or cognitive processing
            that may affect memory; general strategy use; attention; the ability to speak or express ideas in writing;
            the ability to perceive auditory, visual, or written information; or <span><span id="page88"
                    class="pagebreak" title="88" />the ability to integrate abstract ideas (<a
                    class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_173" >Berch &amp; Mazzocco, 2007</a>).
                Although specific learning needs and strategies that work for one child may not work for another, there
                are some general ideas that can help as you plan instruction for children with special needs. The
                following questions should guide your planning: </span></p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p>What organizational, behavioral, and cognitive skills are necessary for the children with special
                    needs to derive meaning from this activity?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Which children have significant weaknesses in any of these skills or concepts?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>What are the children&#8217;s strengths?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>How can I provide additional support in these areas of weakness so that children with special needs
                    can focus on the conceptual task in the activity? (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_188"
                        >Karp &amp; Howell, 2004</a>, p. 119)</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <p>Each phase of the lesson evokes specific planning considerations for children with disabilities. Some
            strategies apply throughout a lesson. The following discussion is based on <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_188" >Karp and Howell (2004)</a> and although not
            exhaustive provides some specific suggestions for offering support throughout the lesson while maintaining
            the challenge.</p>
        <p>1. <em>Structure the Environment</em></p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Centralize attention.</em> Move the child close to the board or teacher. Face children when you
                speak to them and use gestures. Remove competing stimuli.</li>
            <li><em>Avoid confusion</em>. Word directions carefully and ask the child to repeat them. Give one direction
                at a time. Use the same language for consistency. For example, talk about base-ten materials as ones,
                tens, and hundreds rather than interchanging those names with &#8220;f lats,&#8221; &#8220;rods,&#8221;
                and other words about their shape rather than their value.</li>
            <li><em>Create smooth transitions.</em> Ensure that transitions between activities have clear directions and
                there are limited chances to get off task.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>2. <em>Identify and Remove Potential Barriers</em></p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Help children remember.</em> Recognize that memory is often not a strong suit for children with
                disabilities and therefore develop mnemonics (memory aids) for familiar steps or write directions that
                can be referred to throughout the lesson. For example,</li>
            <li><strong>STAR</strong> is a mnemonic for problem solving: <strong>S</strong>earch the word problem for
                important information;
                <strong>T</strong>ranslate the words into models, pictures, or symbols; <strong>A</strong>nswer the
                problem; <strong>R</strong>eview your solution for reasonableness (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_181"
                    >Gagnon &amp; Maccini, 2001</a>).
            </li>
            <li><em>Provide vocabulary and concept support.</em> Explicit attention to vocabulary and symbols is
                critical throughout the lesson. Preview essential terms and related prior knowledge/concepts, create a
                &#8220;math wall&#8221; of words and symbols to provide visual cues, and connect symbols to their
                precise meanings.</li>
            <li><em>Use &#8220;friendly&#8221; numbers</em>. Instead of using $6.13 use $6.00 to emphasize conceptual
                understanding rather than mixing computation and conceptual goals. Incorporate this technique when
                computation and operation skills are <em>not</em> the lesson objective.</li>
            <li><em>Vary the task size.</em> Assign children with special needs fewer problems to solve. Some children
                can become frustrated by the enormity of the task.</li>
            <li><em>Adjust the visual display.</em> Design assessments and tasks so that there is not too much on a
                single page. The density of words, illustrations, and numbers on a page can overload children. Find ways
                to put one problem on a page, increase font size, or reduce the visual display.</li>
        </ul>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch06-teach01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch06-teach01">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Note that searching the word problem for important information is different from identifying &#8220;key
                words&#8221; as the use of a &#8220;key word approach&#8221; is not effective.</p>
        </aside>
        <p><span id="page89" class="pagebreak" title="89" />3. <em>Provide Clarity</em></p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Repeat the timeframe.</em> Give children additional reminders about the time left for exploring
                materials, completing tasks, or finishing assessments. This helps children with time management.</li>
            <li><em>Ask children to share their thinking.</em> Use the think-aloud method or think-pair-share strategy.
            </li>
            <li><em>Emphasize connections</em>. Provide concrete representations, pictorial representations, and
                numerical representations. Have children connect them through carefully phrased questions. Also, connect
                visuals, meanings and words. For example, as you count a series of items, point out that you touch each
                item, say the number name in sequence, and write the last number stated as the total amount
                (cardinality).</li>
            <li><em>Adapt delivery modes</em>. Incorporate a variety of materials, images, examples, and models for
                visual learners. Some children may need to have the problem or assessment read to them or generated with
                voice creation software. Provide written instructions in addition to oral instructions.</li>
            <li><em>Emphasize the relevant points.</em> Some children with disabilities may inappropriately focus on the
                color of a cube instead of the quantity of cubes.</li>
            <li><em>Support the organization of written work.</em> Provide tools and templates so children can focus on
                the mathematics rather than the creation of a table or chart. Also use graphic organizers, picture-based
                models, and paper with columns or grids.</li>
            <li><em>Provide examples and nonexamples.</em> To define triangles, give examples of triangles as well as
                shapes that are not triangles. Help children focus on the characteristics that differentiate the
                examples from those that are not examples.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>4. <em>Consider Alternative Assessments</em></p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Propose alternative products.</em> Provide options for how to demonstrate understanding (e.g., a
                verbal response that is written by someone else, voice recorded, or modeled with a manipulative). Use
                voice recognition software or word prediction software that can generate a whole menu of word choices
                when children type a few letters.
            </li>
            <li><em>Encourage self-monitoring and self-assessment</em>. Children with learning disabilities often need
                support in self-reflection. Asking them to review an assignment or assessment to explain what was
                difficult and what they think they got right, can help them be more independent and take greater
                responsible for their learning.</li>
            <li><em>Consider feedback charts.</em> Help children monitor their growth by charting progress over time.
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>5. <em>Emphasize Practice and Summary</em></p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Consolidate ideas.</em> Create study guides that summarize the key mathematics concepts and allow
                for review. Have children develop their own study guides.</li>
            <li><em>Provide extra practice.</em> Use carefully selected problems (not a large number) and allow the use
                of familiar physical models.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Not all of these strategies will apply to every lesson or every child with special needs, but as you are
            thinking about a particular lesson and certain individuals in your class, you will find that many of these
            will allow your children to engage in the task and accomplish the learning goals of the lesson. Explore
            <a
                    href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Strategies_for_Making_Math_Accessible.pdf"
                    class="ulink">Strategies for Making Math Accessible</a> for a handy collection of cards
            that you can use to think about particular children as you plan.</p>
        <p><span id="page90" class="pagebreak" title="90" />
            The Center for Applied Special Technology (CAST) website contains resources and tools to support the
            learning of all children, especially those with disabilities, through universal design for learning (UDL).
        </p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>