<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Administrator Engagement and Support</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Administrator Engagement and Support</h2>
</header>
<p>Teachers cite a supportive principal as one of the most essential components in successfully implementing a standards-based curriculum (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_212" >Bay, Reys, &amp; Reys, 1999</a>). Principals play pivotal roles in establishing a shared vision for a problem-based mathematics program. Principals, however, often cannot take the time to attend the professional development workshops that are designed for teachers who will be teaching the mathematics program. And what they need to know is qualitatively different from what a classroom teacher needs to know.</p>
<p>Since the launch of the <em>Common Core State Standards,</em> school administrators, parents, and community members are more aware than ever about mathematics standards. If your state has not adopted the <em>Common Core State Standards,</em> there are still state-level standards that are the focus of mathematics goals and assessments. Even though principals are hearing more about mathematics standards, higher standards, and the need to ensure that all children are successful, it does not mean they understand what standards-based mathematics curriculum <em>is</em> in terms of the content or the related CCSS Standards for Mathematical Practice or NCTM Process Standards.</p>
<p>Administrators are likely to get bombarded with broad or specific questions from parents: &#8220;Is &#8216;New Math&#8217; back?,&#8221; &#8220;Why isn&#8217;t the teacher teaching the procedures for multiplying and dividing?,&#8221; &#8220;What are the Standards for Mathematical Practice?,&#8221; or any of the other questions offered earlier in this chapter. When a principal is asked these questions, he or she needs to give a convincing response that is accurate and that also addresses the heart of the parents&#8217; concerns&#8212;that their child is going to get a sound math experience that will prepare him or her for college and career.
</p>
<p><span id="page103" class="pagebreak" title="103"/><a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_231" >Meyer and Arbaugh (2008)</a> suggest professional development specifically for principals. Although their focus is on the adoption of standards-based textbooks, the plan they outline applies to all principals who are seeking to be knowledgeable and effective advocates for implementing new standards or mathematics curricula. The following ideas are adapted from their suggested professional development to focus on one-on-one conversations.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>Contrast old and new curriculum.</em> As a first step, it is important to know what is new and different in the mathematics program. One way to start is to provide a set of materials that represent typical <em>Common Core State Standards</em>&#8211;aligned tasks alongside the previous curriculum. Point out the noticeable similarities and differences or the key features of the curriculum. (Note: It is important to focus on <em>both</em> similarities
<em>and</em> differences&#8212;not <em>everything</em> is being replaced, and this is an important message.)
</p></li>
<li><p><em>Discuss how parents and children will respond.</em> Anticipate what will be noticed by parents (or their children): Which changes might be welcomed? Which changes might be worrisome? How will the welcome aspects be promoted and the worrisome aspects be explained?</p></li>
<li><p><em>Experience the curriculum.</em> Invite the principal to visit your classroom or other classrooms where the Standards for Mathematical Practice or the NCTM Process Standards are being infused. Ask the principal to join a group of children and listen to their discussion of how they are solving a problem. Or organize a lesson when, in the <em>After</em> phase, the children actually present their solutions to the principal. For example, in a kindergarten class, ask children to take pictures (or draw pictures) representing the two-dimensional shapes in the school. If possible, ask the principal to solve one of the problems the children are doing and share his or her strategy with the class. This firsthand experience can provide the principal with a wonderful story to share with parents and with insights that won&#8217;t be gained from reviewing standards documents.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Discuss emerging issues.</em> Plan a regular time to meet with the principal to discuss what he or she has heard from families about the mathematics program. Discuss what you might do to respond to questions (some of the anticipated issues may already have been described in the preceding section on parents&#8217; concerns). If there is a question about a problem-based approach, <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> should be a great read for a principal, and contains talking points to share with others.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>Finally, keep your principal apprised of successes and breakthroughs. These stories provide the principal with stories and evidence to share when pressed by parents or community members. Principals are very often your strongest advocates and are in a position to serve as buffers between school mathematics and the community.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch07-stop-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch07-stop-02">Stop and Reflect</h2></header>
<p>What do you think the parents of your children would most value about &#8220;teaching mathematics
<em>through</em> problem solving,&#8221; and how will you use your response to this question to build strong family support and engagement? (Repeat the question for other stakeholders, such as your principal.)</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>