<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Teaching through Problem Solving: An Upside-Down Approach</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Teaching through Problem Solving: An Upside-Down Approach</h2>
</header>
<p>For many years and continuing today, mathematics has been taught using an &#8220;I-we-you&#8221; approach: The teacher presents the mathematics (I), the children practice the skill with the teacher (we), and, finally, the children, on their own, continue to practice the skill and solve word problems that require using that skill (you). In this approach&#8212;called teaching <em>for</em> problem solving&#8212;the role of problems is to provide applications for newly learned skills. For example, children learn their basic addition facts <span id="page15" class="pagebreak" title="15" />and once those are mastered, solve story problems that involve addition. Unfortunately, this &#8220;do-as-I-show-you&#8221; approach to mathematics teaching has not been successful in helping many children understand mathematics concepts (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_54" >Pesek &amp; Kirshner, 2002</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_55" >Philipp &amp; Vincent, 2003</a>). Here are a few reasons why:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>It requires that all children have the necessary knowledge to understand the teacher&#8217;s explanations&#8212;which is rarely, if ever, the case.</p></li>
<li><p>It communicates that there is only one way to think about and solve the problem, which is a misrepresentation of mathematics and genuine problems.</p></li>
<li><p>It positions the child as a passive learner who is dependent on the teacher to show them ideas, rather than as an independent thinker who is capable and responsible for solving the problem.</p></li>
<li><p>It decreases the likelihood that a child will attempt a novel problem without explicit instructions on how to solve it.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>In the past we assumed that walking children through a procedure or showing a step-by-step method for solving a particular type of problem was the most helpful approach to learning. However, this approach can actually make children worse at solving problems and doing mathematics, not better.</p>
<p>Teaching mathematics <em>through</em> problem solving means that children work with problems to learn new mathematics and to extend their current understanding. This is sometimes called learning through <em>inquiry</em>. With this approach, problem solving is completely interwoven with learning. As children do mathematics&#8212;make sense of cognitively demanding tasks, provide evidence or justification for strategies and solutions, find examples and connections, and receive and provide feedback about ideas&#8212;they are simultaneously engaged in the activities of problem solving and learning. Children learn mathematics through real contexts, problems, situations, and models that allow them to build meaning for the concepts (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_37" >Hiebert et al., 1997</a>). Teaching <em>through</em> problem solving acknowledges what we now know about learning and doing mathematics (see <a class="xref" href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>). Our understanding is always changing, incomplete, situated in context, and interconnected. What we learn becomes part of our expanding and evolving network of ideas&#8212;a network without endpoints.</p>
<p>So teaching <em>through</em> problem solving might be described as &#8220;upside down&#8221; from the traditional approach of teaching <em>for</em> problem solving because the problem or task is presented at the beginning of a lesson and related knowledge or skills emerge from exploring the problem. An example of teaching <em>through</em> problem solving might have children explore the following situation before they are taught the basic facts related to five (e.g., <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render19.png" alttext="0 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>0</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn></mrow></math>; <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render20.png" alttext="1 plus 4" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>4</mn></mrow></math>; <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render21.png" alttext="2 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>2</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></mrow></math>, and so on).</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-2">
<p>Tatyana&#8217;s mother is decorating a cake for Tatyana&#8217;s fifth birthday but she only has green and blue candles. If she wants to use exactly 5 candles on the cake, how many green and blue candles could she use?</p>
</aside>
<p>The teacher would explain to the class that there is more than one correct solution to this problem and that they are to find as many different solutions as they can. As children work on the problem, they may use green and blue counters, they may choose to draw the candles, or they may simply use numbers to capture their ideas.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch02-stop-01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch02-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2></header>
<p>Find all the possible combinations of blue and green candles. How do you know you have found all the combinations? What is the significance of using two colors of candles?</p>
</aside>
<p><span id="page16" class="pagebreak" title="16" />Through this context and exploration, children could grapple with the commutative property of addition as they compare combinations such as 2 (green) <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math16.png" alttext="plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></math> (blue) and 3 (green) <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math16_01.png" alttext="plus 2" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mo>+</mo><mn>2</mn></math> (blue). This problem also generates opportunities for children to investigate 0 as they consider whether they can have 5 green candles and 0 blue candles or vice versa.</p>
<p>Teaching <em>through</em> problem solving positions children to engage with mathematics to learn important mathematical concepts. With this approach, children:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Ask questions</p></li>
<li><p>Determine solution paths</p></li>
<li><p>Use mathematical tools</p></li>
<li><p>Make conjectures</p></li>
<li><p>Seek out patterns</p></li>
<li><p>Communicate findings</p></li>
<li><p>Make connections to other content</p></li>
<li><p>Make generalizations</p></li>
<li><p>Reflect on results</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Hopefully these student behaviors sound familiar. This list reflects the CCSS Standards for Mathematical Practice and the NCTM process standards as well as components of being mathematically proficient that were discussed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>