<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 3: Creating Assessments for Learning</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page38" class="pagebreak" title="38" /><span class="number">Chapter 3</span></h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">Creating
                Assessments for Learning</h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h2 class="title" id="ch03-head02-01">Assessment That Informs Instruction</h2>
        </header>
        <p>When using a problem-based approach, teachers might ask, &#8220;How do I assess?&#8221; NCTM&#8217;s position
            statement on formative assessment (2013), and the joint NCSM/AMTE position statement on formative assessment
            (n.d.) stress several important ideas: (1) assessment should enhance children&#8217;s learning, (2)
            assessment is a valuable tool for making instructional decisions, and (3) feedback should help learners
            progress. This aligns with the distinction between assessment of learning, where children are only evaluated
            on what they know at a given moment in an effort to home in on what they don&#8217;t know, and assessment
            for learning (AFL), where children are continually evaluated so that instruction can be targeted to gaps and
            their learning is improved over time (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_81" >Hattie,
                2015</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_99" >Wiliam &amp; Leahy, 2015</a>).
        </p>
        <p>Assessment is not separate from instruction and should include the critical CCSS mathematical practices and
            NCTM processes that occur in the course of effective problem-based instructional approaches (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_78" >Fennell, Kobett, &amp; Wray, 2015</a>). A
            typical end-of-chapter or end-of-year test of skills may have value, but it rarely reveals the type of data
            that can fine tune instruction to improve individual children&#8217;s performance. In fact, <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_77" >Daro, Mosher, and Corcoran (2011)</a> state
            that &#8220;the starting point is the mathematics and thinking the child brings to the lesson, not the
            deficit of mathematics they do not bring&#8221; (p. 48). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_51"
                >NCTM&#8217;s <em>Principles to Actions</em> (2014)</a>
                urges teachers in their mathematical teaching practices to incorporate evidence of child thinking into
                an
                ongoing refinement of their instruction.<span id="page39" class="pagebreak" title="39" /></p>
        <p>Assessments usually fall into one of two major categories: summative or formative. <em>Summative
                assessments</em> are cumulative evaluations that take place usually after instruction is completed. They
            commonly generate a single score, such as an end-of-unit test or a standardized test that is used in your
            state or school district. Although the scores are important for schools and teachers, used individually they
            often do not help shape day-to-day teaching decisions.</p>
        <p>On the other hand, <em>formative assessments</em> are assessments that are used to check children&#8217;s
            development during instructional activities, to preassess, or to attempt to identify children&#8217;s
            na&#239;ve understandings or misconceptions (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_80"
                >Hattie, 2009</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_90"
                >Popham, 2008</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_99"
                >Wiliam &amp; Leahy, 2015</a>). When implemented well, formative assessment is
            one of the most powerful influences on achievement (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_80"
                >Hattie, 2009</a>). It dramatically increases the speed and amount of a
            child&#8217;s learning (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_86" >Nyquist, 2003</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_97" >Wiliam, 2007</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_100" >Wilson &amp; Kenney, 2003</a>) by providing
            targeted feedback to children and using the results and evidence collected to inform your decision making
            about next steps in the learning progression.</p>
        <p><a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_98" >Wiliam (2010)</a> notes three key processes in
            formative assessment: (1) Identify where learners are; (2) Identify goals for the learners; and (3) Identify
            paths to reach the goals. Let&#8217;s look at an example of this process. For example, to see whether first
            graders can find a missing addend you could use the following word problem: &#8220;If Lindy has 6 shells in
            her collection, how many more shells does she need to get 13?&#8221; The teacher observes one child taking
            out connecting cubes, counting out 6 and then adding more until she reaches 13. Then she goes back to the
            pile of cubes, takes out 6, and counts the remaining cubes, stating &#8220;seven.&#8221; Another child
            places her hands on the table with fingers stretched out and, if observed carefully, shows signs that she is
            &#8220;counting on&#8221; from 6 by pressing 7 fingers down one at a time until she reaches 13. A different
            child calls out &#8220;7&#8221; almost immediately. When asked how he arrived at that answer, he says that
            <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render28.png"
                alttext="6 plus 6 equals 12" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>6</mn>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mn>6</mn>
                    <mo>=</mo>
                    <mn>12</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math>, so <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                altimg="../images/render29.png" alttext="6 plus 7 equals 13" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250"
                class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>6</mn>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mn>7</mn>
                    <mo>=</mo>
                    <mn>13</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math>. The information gathered from observing these children reveals very different paths for the next
            steps. This teacher is at the first step in Wiliam&#8217;s three key processes, noting where children are in
            their learning. Moving into the second step, the teacher notes that one child should move to more
            challenging tasks while two children need to move closer to the CCSS standard of using addition and
            subtraction within 20 to solve a variety of word problems through more targeted instruction.
        </p>
        <p>If summative assessment can be described as a digital snapshot, formative assessment is like streaming video.
            One is a picture of what a child knows that is captured in a single moment of time; the other is a moving
            picture that demonstrates active student thinking and reasoning. In the following pages and throughout Part
            2 of this book in Formative Assessment Notes, we focus on four basic methods for using of formative
            assessments to evaluate children&#8217;s understanding: observations, questions, interviews, and tasks. Here
            we discuss each method in depth.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>