<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Children&#8217;s Strategies for Solving Addition and Subtraction Problems</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap9-head3_9">Children&#8217;s Strategies for Solving Addition and Subtraction
                Problems</h3>
        </header>
        <p>PreK&#8211;1 grade children have little or no means of efficiently computing, so when faced with solving word
            problems, they often use counters or other models to help them figure out the solution based on the meaning
            in the story. Research in mathematics education describes <span id="page163" class="pagebreak"
                title="163" />three levels through which children progress as they make sense of and solve addition and
            subtraction situations. The levels are direct modeling, counting strategies, and derived facts (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_269" >Carpenter, Fennema, Franke, Levi, &amp;
                Empson, 2014</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_273" >Clements &amp; Sarama,
                2007</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_288" >NRC, 2009</a>). Over time,
            after having multiple experiences with different addition and subtraction situations, children eventually
            become f luent with individual sums and differences and these become known facts to the children.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-smp-11">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>2 Reason abstractly and quantitatively.</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <p>Let&#8217;s consider how children might solve the following story problem depending on the level at which
            they are functioning.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_13">
            <p>Jacob has 5 cards. His brother gives him 8 more cards. How many cards does Jacob have now?</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Children who use <em>direct modeling</em> to find a solution model every number and action described in the
            situation using actual objects, fingers, or drawings. So a child who is working at the direct modeling level
            would count out 5 blocks, then count out 8 more blocks, and then count them all to find 13&#8212;this is
            called a <em>count all</em> strategy. You can watch videos of two first graders using direct modeling:
            <a class="ulink" href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0117_iPad"><strong>Arlene <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                    altimg="../images/render90.png" alttext="left parenthesis 5 plus 3 right parenthesis"
                    altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mo>(</mo>
                        <mn>5</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>3</mn>
                        <mo>)</mo>
                    </mrow>
                </math></strong></a> and <a class="ulink" href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0126_iPad"><strong>Cheyenne <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                    altimg="../images/render91.png" alttext="left parenthesis 14 minus 5 right parenthesis"
                    altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mo>(</mo>
                        <mn>14</mn>
                        <mo>&#8722;</mo>
                        <mn>5</mn>
                        <mo>)</mo>
                    </mrow>
                </math></strong></a>.
        </p>
        <p>A child who is using more efficient <em>counting strategies</em> does not need to model every number in the
            situation: the child will start at 8 and count up 5, holding up one finger for each number word from 9 up to
            13&#8212;this is called a <em>counting on</em> strategy. You can watch <a
                    href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0108_iPad" class="ulink">Andrew</a>, a
            first grader, use a counting on strategy to solve <math display="inline"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render92.png" alttext="5 plus 3"
                altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>5</mn>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mn>3</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math>.</p>
        <p>A child functioning at the <em>derived facts</em> level often looks for ways to decompose the numbers in a
            given situation to make an easier problem. This child may reason that because 8 is 2 away from 10, he can
            decompose 5 into 2 and 3, add the 2 to the 8 which equals 10, and then add 3 more which is 13&#8212;this is
            called <em>a Making 10</em> or an <em>Up Over 10</em> strategy. A child who is using derived facts may
            reason so quickly that it appears that the fact is a known fact. In this case, the distinction between
            derived and known facts is arbitrary. In these videos, <a
                    href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0128_iPad" class="ulink">Cheyenne</a> and
            <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0141_iPad" class="ulink">Edgar</a>
            explain how they used derived facts.
        </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch09_formative_02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch09_formative_02">Formative Assessment Note</h2>
            </header>
          
            <p>The strategies that children use to solve problems provide you with important information concerning
                their number development, how they are reasoning to answer basic facts, and methods that they are using
                for multidigit computation. Therefore, it is essential that you look at more than the answers children
                get. These observations can give you insight into what numbers to use in problems for the next day,
                including any special number or computation development work needed for individual children.</p>
            <p>For example, a child who counts out counters for each of two addends and then counts all of the counters
                again might be encouraged to count on by posing a problem involving adding a large number and a small
                one, such as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                    altimg="../images/render93.png" alttext="14 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350"
                    class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mn>14</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>3</mn>
                    </mrow>
                </math>. If you have been working on the meaning of the teens or other ideas about tens, you should pose
                problems that offer opportunities for children to use these ideas. For example, pose problems for <math
                    display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render94.png"
                    alttext="14 minus 10" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mn>14</mn>
                        <mo>&#8722;</mo>
                        <mn>10</mn>
                    </mrow>
                </math> or <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                    altimg="../images/render95.png" alttext="10 plus 10 plus 10 plus 6" altimg-height="100"
                    altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                    <mrow>
                        <mn>10</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>10</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>10</mn>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mn>6</mn>
                    </mrow>
                </math>. Then you can observe children&#8217;s use of the ideas you have been working on. You can also
                pose problems involving number concepts or computations that you have not yet explored with your
                children. How they approach the problems will give you insight as to where that portion of your number
                instruction can best begin.</p>
            <p>The point is to use story problems to assess more than problem solving. Number and computation skills are
                often much more clearly visible in children&#8217;s work with story problems than on exercises devoid of
                a context.</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>