<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Planning for Children Who Are Mathematically Gifted</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Planning for Children Who Are Mathematically Gifted</h2>
</header>
<p>Children who are mathematically gifted include those who have high ability or high interest. Some may be gifted with an intuitive knowledge of mathematical concepts, whereas others have a passion for the subject even though they may work hard to learn it. Many children&#8217;s <span id="page91" class="pagebreak" title="91"/>giftedness becomes apparent to parents and teachers when they grasp and articulate mathematics concepts at an age earlier than expected. They are often found to easily make connections between topics of study and frequently are unable to explain how they quickly got an answer (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_201" >Rotigel &amp; Fello, 2005</a>).</p>
<p>Many teachers have a keen ability to spot talent when they note children who have strong number sense or visual/spatial sense (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_182" >Gavin &amp; Sheffield, 2010</a>). Note that these teachers are not pointing to children who are fast and speedy with their basic facts, but those who have the ability to reason and make sense of mathematics.</p>
<p>Do not wait for children to demonstrate their mathematical talent; instead develop it through a challenging set of tasks and inquiry-based instruction (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_206" >Van Tassel-Baska &amp; Brown 2007</a>). Generally, as described in the RtI model, high-quality core instruction is able to respond to the varying needs of diverse learners, including the talented and gifted. Yet for some of your gifted children, the core instruction may prove not to be enough of a challenge.</p>
<p>Pre-assessing children by curriculum-based tests and also other measures such as concept maps prior to instruction allows the evaluation of what the child already knows and in some cases identifies how many grade levels ahead they might be (Rakow, 2012). Without this information the possibility of targeting the next steps and adaptations becomes guesswork.</p>
<p>There are four basic categories for adapting mathematics content for gifted mathematics students: <em>acceleration and pacing, depth, complexity,</em> and <em>creativity</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_187" >Johnsen, Ryser, &amp; Assouline, 2014</a>). In each category, your children should apply, rather than just acquire, information. The emphasis on applying, implementing, and extending ideas must overshadow the mental collection of facts and concepts.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch06-head-06">Acceleration and Pacing</h3>
</header>
<p>Acceleration recognizes that your children may already understand the mathematics content that you plan to teach. Some teachers use &#8220;curriculum compacting&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_200" >Reis &amp; Renzulli, 2005</a>) to give a short overview of the content and assess children&#8217;s ability to respond to mathematics tasks that would demonstrate their proficiency. Allowing children to increase the pace of their own learning can give them access to curriculum different from their grade level while demanding more independent study. But, moving children to higher mathematics (by moving them up a grade, for example) will not succeed in engaging them as learners if the instruction is still at a slow pace. Research reveals that when gifted children are accelerated through the curriculum they are more likely to explore STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_202" >Sadler &amp; Tai, 2007</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>