<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Equal Sharing</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 id="chap14-head3_2" class="title">Equal Sharing</h3>
</header>
<p><span id="page305" class="pagebreak" title="305" />Equal sharing, a form of division, is an idea that young children understand intuitively because of their experiences sharing things with brothers, sisters, friends, and so on. Consider the idea of four children fairly sharing two sticks of clay so they can make clay animals. Fractions emerge naturally from this scenario. Note that this is not a part&#8211;whole scenario, although it still results in each child getting two-fourths or one-half of a stick of clay. Because of the meaningful connections that can be made, early fraction instruction should build from young children&#8217;s experiences of sharing and partitioning (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_439" >Empson &amp; Levi, 2011</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_444" >Lamon, 2012</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_458" >Siegler et al., 2010</a>).</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch14-smp-01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch14-smp-01">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>2 Reason abstractly and quantitatively.</strong></p>
</aside>
<p>Equal sharing situations can involve continuous or discrete quantities. The example with two sticks of clay is an example of a continuous quantity because theoretically we could cut the stick into as many equal pieces as we want. With young children, when using discrete quantities for equal sharing situations, it is best to use story problems that have whole-number solutions with no remainders. (These story problems with discrete quantities are the same as the partition division problems discussed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0009_00.xhtml">Chapter 9</a>.) Consider these story problems:</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="star-14_2">
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>There are 12 chairs and 4 tables in a classroom. If we want the same number of chairs around each table, how many chairs will be placed around a table?</p></li>
<li><p>There are 14 chairs and 4 tables in a classroom. If we want the same number of chairs around each table, how many chairs will be placed around a table?</p></li>
</ul>
</aside>
<p>The solution for both problems (how many chairs will be placed around a table) is a whole number (3). But in the second problem there are two chairs that cannot be placed and, because chairs are discrete objects, they cannot be split or cut into smaller parts that can be shared. If your goal is to have children think about fractional parts, you want them to be able to share fairly all the objects in the situation. So it is important to use continuous quantities when there are remainders so those can be cut into as many equal parts as needed.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
