<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Adapting for Children with Moderate/Severe Disabilities</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Adapting for Children with Moderate/Severe Disabilities</h2>
</header>
<p>Children with moderate/severe disabilities (MSD) often need extensive modifications and individualized supports to learn mathematics. This population of children may include those with severe autism, sensory disorders, limitations affecting movement, cerebral palsy, processing disorders such as intellectual disabilities and combinations of multiple disabilities.</p>
<p>Originally, the curriculum for children with severe disabilities was called &#8220;functional,&#8221; in that it often focused on life-related skills such as managing money, telling time, using a calculator, measuring, and matching numbers to complete such tasks as entering a telephone number or identifying a house number. Now directives and assessments have broadened the curriculum to address the grade-level expectations in the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_176" >CCSSO, 2010</a>) or other curriculum policy documents.</p>
<p>When possible, the content should be connected to life skills and when appropriate features of jobs. To develop number sense, counting can be linked to daily counting tasks to be accomplished, and counting down can mark a period of cleanup after an activity or to complete self-care routines (washing hands). Children with moderate or severe disabilities should have opportunities to use measuring tools, compare graphs, explore place-value concepts (sometimes linked to money use), use the number line, and compare quantities. Shopping skills or activities in which food is prepared are both options for mathematical problem solving. At other times, link mathematical learning objectives to everyday events in a practical way. For example, when the operation of addition is studied, figuring out how many forks are needed for a birthday party that includes two classes would be appropriate. Children can also undertake a small project such as making a placemat for lunch as a way to explore shapes and measurements.</p>
<p>Do not believe that all basic facts must be mastered before children with moderate or severe disabilities can move forward in the curriculum; children can learn geometric or measuring concepts without having mastered all basic facts. Teaching geometry to children with moderate and severe disabilities should include more than merely identifying shapes. It is, in fact, critical for orienting children with moderate and severe disabilities into the real world. Concepts such as parallel and perpendicular lines and curves and straight sides become helpful for interpreting maps of the local area. Children who learn to count bus stops and judge time can be helped to successfully navigate their world. The handout <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Math_Activities_for_Students_with_Moderate_or_Severe_Disabilities.pdf" class="ulink">Math Activities for Children with Moderate or Severe Disabilities</a> offers ideas across the curriculum appropriate for teaching children with moderate to severe disabilities. Also, look at the <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Additional_Strategies_for_Supporting_Students_with_Moderate_Severe_Disabilities.pdf" class="ulink">Additional Strategies for Supporting Children with Moderate/Severe Disabilities</a> handout for more ideas on how you can modify grade-level instruction.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>