<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Think-Alouds</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch06-head-05">Think-Alouds</h3>
</header>
<p>When you use a &#8220;think-aloud&#8221; as an instructional strategy you demonstrate the steps to accomplish a task while verbalizing the thinking process and reasoning that accompany the actions. Remember, don&#8217;t start with where your thinking is; assess and start where the child&#8217;s thinking is. Let&#8217;s look at an example. Consider a problem in which first graders are given the task of determining which of two children is taller and by how much by having the students lying on the f loor. Rather than merely demonstrating, for example, how to use connecting cubes to measure the length of the children, the think-aloud strategy would involve talking through the steps and identifying the reasons for each step while measuring each child and then comparing the difference between the children&#8217;s heights. As you place a tick mark on the f loor to indicate where the cubes should start, you might state, &#8220;I used this line to mark off where Rebecca&#8217;s foot ends. How should I use this line as I measure Rebecca? I know I have to add on cubes, but how do I know when to stop adding cubes?&#8221; &#8220;How can I use both lengths of cubes to find out if Rebecca is taller than Emma and by how much?&#8221; &#8220;Do I need to count all the cubes?&#8221; All of this dialogue occurs prior to counting the difference in the amount of cubes.</p>
<p>Often teachers share alternatives about how else they could have carried out the task. When using this metacognitive strategy, try to talk about and model possible approaches (and the reasons behind these approaches) in an effort to make your invisible thinking processes visible to children.</p>
<p>Although you will choose any of these strategies as needed for interventions, your goal is always to work toward high student responsibility for learning. Movement to higher levels of understanding of content can be likened to moving up a hill. For some, formal stair steps with support along the way is necessary (explicit strategy instruction); for others, ramps with encouragement at the top of the hill will work (peer-assisted learning). Other children can find a path up the hill on their own with some guidance from visual representations (CSA approach). All people can relate to the need to have different support during different times of their lives or under <span id="page87" class="pagebreak" title="87"/>different circumstances, and it is no different for children with special needs (see <a class="xref" href="chapter0006_04.xhtml#tab_6-2">Table 6.2</a>). Yet children with special needs must eventually learn to create a path to new learning on their own, as that is what will be required in the real world after formal education ends. Leaving children with only knowing how to climb steps with support and then later in life having them face hills without constant assistance and encouragement from others will not help them attain their life goals. </p>
<figure class="Table lc_img50" id="tab_6-2">
<header><h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">6.2</span>Common stumbling blocks for children with disabilities.</h2>
</header>
</figure>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col"><strong>Stumbling Blocks for Children</strong></th>
<th scope="col"><strong>What Will I Notice?</strong> </th>
<th scope="col"><strong>What Should I Do?</strong> </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Trouble forming mental representations of mathematical concepts </td>
<td>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Has difficulty identifying a triangle when the top of the triangle points down</p></li>
<li><p>Can&#8217;t interpret a number line</p></li></ul>
</td>
<td>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Explicitly teach the representation&#8212;for example, demonstrate exactly how to draw a triangle while identifying the critical properties</p></li>
<li><p>Use larger versions of the representation so that children can move on (e.g., number line) or interact with the model</p></li></ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Difficulty accessing numerical meanings from symbols (issues with number sense) </td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Has difficulty with basic facts; for example, doesn&#8217;t recognize that <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render26.png" alttext="3 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>3</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn></math> is equal to <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render25.png" alttext="5 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></math>, or that <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math87.png" alttext="5 plus 1" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>1</mn></math> is the same as the next counting number after 5</p></li>
<li><p>Does not understand the meaning of the equal sign</p></li>
<li><p>Can&#8217;t interpret if an answer is reasonable</p></li>
</ul></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Explicitly teach multiple ways of representing a number showing the variations at the same time</p></li>
<li><p>Use a number balance to support understanding of the equal sign</p></li>
<li><p>Use multiple representations for a single problem to show how it would be carried out in a variety of ways (base-ten blocks, illustrations, and numbers) rather than using multiple problems</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Difficulty keeping numbers and information in working memory </td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Loses track of counts of objects</p></li>
<li><p>Gets confused when multiple strategies are shared by other children during the <em>After</em> portion of the lesson</p></li>
<li><p>Forgets how to start the problem-solving process</p></li></ul></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Use ten-frames or organizational mats to help the child organize counts</p></li>
<li><p>Explicitly model using counters or how to use skip counting to count</p></li>
<li><p>Record in writing the ideas of other children during discussions</p></li>
<li><p>Incorporate a chart that lists the main steps in problem solving as an independent guide or make bookmarks with questions the children can ask themselves as self-prompts</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lacks organizational skills and the ability to self regulate </td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Misses steps in a process</p></li>
<li><p>Writes computations in a way that is random and hard to follow</p></li></ul></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Use routines as often as possible or provide self-monitoring checklists to prompt steps along the way</p></li>
<li><p>Use graph paper to record problems or numbers</p></li>
<li><p>Create math word walls as a reference</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Misapplies rules or overgeneralizes </td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Applies rules such as &#8220;Always subtract the smaller from the larger&#8221; too literally, resulting in errors such as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math87_1.png" alttext="25 minus 9 equals 24" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>25</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>9</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>24</mn></math></p></li></ul></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Always give examples as well as counter examples to show how and when &#8220;rules&#8221; should be used and when they should not.</p></li>
<li><p>Tie all rules into conceptual understanding, don&#8217;t emphasize memorizing rote procedures or practices</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</section>
</body>
</html>