<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Resources for Families</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap7-head3_9">Resources for Families</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Parents will be better able to help their child if they know where to find resources. The Internet can either
            provide a wealth of information or be an overwhelming distraction. Help parents locate the good places to
            find math support. First, check whether your textbook provides websites with online resources for homework,
            including tutorials, video tutoring, videos, connections to careers and real-world applications,
            multilingual glossaries, audio podcasts, and more. Second, post websites that are good general resources.
            Here are some examples:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>Math Forum@NCTM.</em> This popular and useful site includes many features for teachers and
                    families. Parents may want to read or participate in math discussion groups, read <span id="page110"
                        class="pagebreak" title="110" />about key issues for the mathematics community, or download some
                    of the very interesting problems posted here.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>National Library of Virtual Manipulatives</em> (NLVM) This site has many applets and virtual
                    tools for learning about many mathematics topics, appropriate for the classroom and the home.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>There are also great websites for specific content. For example, Thinking Blocks has excellent applets for
            exploring addition and subtraction. Finally, print books can be important resources for teachers. Here are a
            couple that we recommend:</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch_07_teach06">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch_07_teach06">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Don&#8217;t forget the value of your own website as the first site for parents to visit for support. Post
                your unit letters to families, newsletters, access to homework assignments, possible strategies for
                doing the homework, and even successful student solutions.</p>
        </aside>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>It&#8217;s Elementary: A Parent&#8217;s Guide to K-5 Mathematics</em> (<a
                        class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_237" >Whitenack, Cavey, &amp; Henney,
                        2015</a>). This book explains current teaching practices and fundamental math concepts, with
                    many examples and student work.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>What&#8217;s Math Got to Do with It? How Parents and Teachers Can Help Children Learn to Love
                        Their Least Favorite Subject</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_213"
                        >Boaler, 2009</a>). Jo Boaler describes how math can be understandable
                    and fun, how children can excel in math, and how parents and schools can help.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>