<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Make Content Relevant</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header><h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-04">Make Content Relevant</h3>
</header>
<p>There are really two components to making content relevant. One is to think about the <em>mathematics</em>: Is the mathematics itself presented meaningfully, and is it connected to other content? The second is to select <em>contexts</em>: Is the mathematics presented so that it connects to relevant/authentic situations in children&#8217;s lives? </p>
<header><h4 class="title">Mathematical Connections</h4>
</header>
<p>Helping children see that mathematical ideas are interrelated will fill in or deepen their understanding of and connections to previously taught content. Consider the following first-grade problem: </p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-5">
<p>Edwin has some trains. He gives 2 to Marta. Edwin now has 6 trains. How many did Edwin have before he gave some away? </p>
</aside>
<p>You may recognize that this task connects addition and subtraction, and that the initial value (how many trains Edwin had before he gave any away) is the unknown amount. Although the mathematics is already presented in a conceptual and meaningful manner, it is important to connect addition and subtraction, as well as to connect the symbols to the situation. For example, one child might use a think-addition approach: &#8220;I know that he had 6 and plus the 2 from Marta means he ended up with 8.&#8221; Another child might think: &#8220;I thought &#8216;what minus 2 is 6 and I know that is 8.&#8221; The symbols for each child&#8217;s thinking are <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render35.png" alttext="6 plus 2 equals ?" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>=</mo><mtext>?</mtext></mrow></math> and <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render36.png" alttext="? minus 2 equals 6" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mtext>?</mtext><mo>&#8722;</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>6</mn></mrow></math>, respectively. Having children connect the symbols back to their thinking and to the story helps build strong mathematical connections and understanding of addition and subtraction. </p>
<header><h4 class="title">Context Connections</h4>
</header>
<p>Making content relevant is also about contexts. If the &#8220;trains&#8221; context is familiar, it can ground children&#8217;s thinking so they can focus on reasoning about the mathematical relationships. Using problems that connect children to developmentally appropriate social or peer connections is one way to contextualize learning. Another is to make connections to historical or cultural contexts. Seeing mathematics from various cultures provides opportunities for children to &#8220;put faces&#8221; on mathematical contributions. For example, you can introduce the Mayan place-value system as a way to think about how we write numerals (grade K) and to think about our place-value (base-ten) system (grade 2). </p>
<p>You can also have children create freedom quilts, which tell stories about the Underground Railroad (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_157" >Neumann, 2005</a>), or other geometric art patterns can be used to develop <span id="page69" class="pagebreak" title="69" />standards content such as partitioning circles or rectangles into halves and fourths (grade 1) or into halves fourths, and thirds (grade 2).</p>
<p>Analyze existing textbook lessons to see if the contexts used actually help children make sense of the mathematics&#8212;if they do not, then adapt the contexts so that they do (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_132" >Drake et al., 2015</a>). Additionally, sometimes data is provided in textbook tasks that can be replaced with data from your community, making it much more relevant and interesting to children, as well as potentially teaching children something important about their community (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_163" >Simic-Muller, 2015</a>). Using everyday situations can increase student participation, use of different problem strategies, and consequently help children develop a productive disposition (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_164" >Tomaz &amp; David, 2015</a>). </p>
</section>
</body>
</html>