<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Integrating Base-Ten Groupings with Words</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap11-head3_2">Integrating Base-Ten Groupings with Words</h3>
</header>
<p>The way we say a number such as &#8220;thirty-five&#8221; must also be connected with the grouping-
by-tens concept. In particular, counting by tens and ones results in saying the number of groups and singles separately: &#8220;three tens and five.&#8221; Saying the number of tens and singles separately in this fashion is called base-ten language. Children can associate base-ten language with standard language: &#8220;three tens and five is the same as thirty-five.&#8221;</p>
<p>There are several variations of base-ten language for 35: &#8220;3 tens and 5,&#8221; &#8220;3 tens and 5 ones,&#8221; &#8220;3 groups of 10 and 5 ones;&#8221; &#8220;3 tens and 5 singles,&#8221; and so on. Each may be used interchangeably with the standard name &#8220;thirty-five.&#8221; If you have ELLs, it is best to select one variation (e.g., 3 tens and 5 ones) and consistently connect it to the standard language. Other languages often use the base-ten format (e.g., 17 in Spanish is <em>diecisiete,</em> 17 in Japanese is <em>juushichi</em>&#8212;both of which literally mean &#8220;ten and seven&#8221;), so this can be a good cultural connection for children.</p>
<p>It is important to be precise in your language. Whenever you refer to a number in the tens, hundreds, or thousands (or beyond), make sure you do not just say &#8220;six,&#8221; but instead refer to it with its place value location, such as 6 tens (or 60). Children are often confused when numbers are discussed as digits rather that describing their actual value.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch11-smp-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch11-smp-02">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
</header>
<p><strong>6 Attend to precision.</strong></p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>