<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 13: Promoting Algebraic Reasoning</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page270" class="pagebreak" title="270" /><span class="number">Chapter 13</span>
              </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
                Promoting Algebraic Reasoning</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Algebra is a useful tool for
                    generalizing arithmetic and representing patterns in our world. Explaining regularities and
                    consistencies across many problems gives children the chance to generalize. (Mathematical Practice
                    8)</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> The methods we use to compute and
                    the structures in our number system can and be generalized. For example, the generalization that
                    <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math270_01.png" alttext="a plus b equals b plus a" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="93px" class="informalequation"> <mi>a</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>a</mi></math> tells us that <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math270_02.png" alttext="38 plus 72 equals 72 plus 38" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="155px" class="informalequation"><mn>38</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>72</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>72</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>38</mn></math> without having to
                    compute the sums on each side of the equal sign. (Mathematical Practice 7)</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Symbols, especially those
                    involving equality and variables, must be well understood conceptually for children to be successful
                    in mathematics. (Mathematical Practice 6)</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Algebraic reasoning (also called algebraic thinking) in grades preK&#8722;2 involves forming generalizations
            from experiences with number and computation and formalizing these ideas with the use of meaningful
            representations and symbols. Looking for and finding relationships and building a structure with those
            relationships are the core ideas involved in forming these generalizations. Algebraic thinking is used
            across all areas of mathematics and is central to mathematical reasoning in general, as can be seen from the
            strong connections to the Standards for Mathematical Practice.</p>
        <p><span id="page271" class="pagebreak" title="271" />According to the <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_416" >National Council of Teachers of Mathematics,
                2006</a>), preK children should engage in algebraic thinking through recognizing and generating simple
            patterns&#8212;in other words, looking for and finding relationships. In kindergarten, young children engage
            in algebraic thinking as they &#8220;represent addition and subtraction with objects, fingers, mental
            images, drawings, sounds (e.g., claps), acting out situations, verbal explanations, expressions, or
            equations&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_395" >CCSSO, 2010</a>, p. 11).
            Similar connections between arithmetic and algebra are noted in every grade from kindergarten through second
            grade, where number and algebra are combined in the discussions of clusters and standards under the domain
            of Operations and Algebraic Thinking. CCSS-M introduces function as a domain in grade 8, but functional
            thinking begins in the early grades as children consider situations that covary, such as the relationship
            between the number of pencils purchased and the cost of those pencils.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>