<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Relevant and Well-Designed Contexts</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-03">Relevant and Well-Designed Contexts</h3>
</header>
<p>One of the most powerful ways to teach mathematics through problem solving is to begin the lesson with a problem that can get children excited about learning mathematics. Compare the following first-grade introductory tasks on counting in groups. Which one do you think would be more exciting to children?<span id="page22" class="pagebreak" title="22" /></p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="teach03">
<header><h2 class="title" id="teach03">Teaching Tip</h2></header>

<p>Before giving a selected task to your class, anticipate several possible student responses to the task, including possible misconceptions, and think about how you might address these responses. Anticipating the responses gives you time to consider how you will respond to various ideas and it also helps you to quickly recognize different strategies and misconceptions when children are working on the task.</p>
</aside>
<p><em>Classroom A:</em> &#8220;Today we are going to use straws to show the day of the month. We will bundle the straws into as many groups of ten as we can and then leave the leftovers loose.&#8221;</p>
<p><em>Classroom B:</em> &#8220;You all have been busy deciding which kinds of plants we want to put in a garden outside our classroom. The store where I am getting the plants will put them in a plastic container so they will be easier to carry. Each container holds two rows of five plants. If I get 26 plants, how many of these containers will I need?&#8221;</p>
<p>Familiar and interesting contexts increase children&#8217;s engagement. Your goal as a teacher is to design problems using familiar and interesting contexts that provide specific parameters, constraints, or structure that will support the development of the mathematical ideas you want children to learn. Note that in solving a worthwhile problem the problematic or engaging aspect of the problem must be a result of the mathematics that the children are to learn. Any context or external constraints used should not overshadow but highlight the mathematics to be learned. In the context used in Classroom B, the situation involves plants that are arranged in two groups of five. The teacher is aware that some of the children still need to count by ones, but the constraint that each container has two groups of five will require that they group their plants into two groups of five, very likely after drawing and counting by ones. This constraint begins to incrementally move these children toward more efficient ways of counting. For those children who are already counting by fives, the two groups of five move them toward working with groups of ten. For children already working with groups of 10, they might not draw plants at all and instead draw a rectangle to represent each container and label it with &#8220;10.&#8221; By building in such constraints, parameters, or structure, teachers can support children in developing more sophisticated strategies that honor where the children currently are in their understanding (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_33" >Fosnot &amp; Dolk, 2001</a>).</p>
<p>Children&#8217;s literature is a rich source for generating high cognitive demand tasks with multiple entry and exit points. For example, the popular children&#8217;s book <em>Two of Everything</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_39" >Hong, 1993</a>) offers several possibilities for tasks that can be launched from the story. In this Chinese folktale, a couple finds a magic pot that doubles whatever is put into it. In a second-grade class, the children can determine how many children would be in their class if the whole class fell in the magic pot. Children can use various strategies, such as using a hundreds chart, ten frames, or number sense, to solve the problem (multiple entry points). To explain how they figured out the solution, children can verbally share, write out their explanation, or demonstrate their reasoning using a hundreds chart or ten frame (multiple exit points). You can also use the story as a springboard to other problems. For instance, the magic pot can start doing other unexpected things, such as tripling or increasing by 5 what is put into it, and so on (see <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_63" >Suh, 2007a</a> and <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_69" >Wickett, Kharas, &amp; Burns, 2002</a>, for more ideas related to this children&#8217;s book).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>