<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Assessing Basic Facts Effectively</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Assessing Basic Facts Effectively</h2>
</header>
<p><a class="xref" href="chapter0003_00.xhtml">Chapter 3</a> illustrated many formative assessment strategies&#8212;observations, interviews, performance tasks, and writing&#8212;ways to help you figure out what children know and what they do not know so that we can design instruction accordingly. Yet assessment of basic facts is often limited to timed tests. We must do better if we are going to ensure that all children learn their basic facts.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_6">What Is Wrong with Timed Tests?</h3>
</header>
<p><span id="page186" class="pagebreak" title="186"/>First, timed tests do not assess the four elements of fluency (e.g., being able to flexibly, accurately, efficiently, and appropriately solve problems). Timed tests provide no insights into which strategies children are using, nor if they are flexible in using those strategies. From timed tests, you have a little insight into how efficient children might be overall, but you don&#8217;t really know whether children have used very inefficient strategies for some facts while going quickly through others. So, at best, you can see which facts they are getting correct (accuracy). Second, timed tests negatively affect children&#8217;s number sense and recall of facts (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_311" >Boaler, 2012</a>, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_312" >2014</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_326" >Henry &amp; Brown, 2008</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_336" >Ramirez, Gunderson, Levine, &amp; Beilock, 2013</a>). Third, timed tests are not needed for children to master their facts (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_329" >Kling, 2011</a>), so they take up time that could be used for meaningful and more appealing learning experiences.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>