<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>A Move to Computational Fluency</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">A Move to Computational Fluency</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Addition and subtraction strategies that build on decomposing and composing numbers in flexible ways
            contribute to children&#8217;s overall number sense. In most everyday instances, these alternative
            strategies for computing are easier and faster than the standard algorithms (procedures for computing) and
            can often be done mentally. Therefore, it is advantageous to help children learn a variety of methods that
            they can select from as needed. In fact, more and more elementary classrooms are engaging in what has become
            commonly known as &#8220;number talks&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_371"
                >Humphreys &amp; Parker, 2015</a>) where children have opportunities to engage
            in solving and discussing alternative strategies to solve computation problems.</p>
        <p>Consider the following problem.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_01">
            <p>Mary has 114 spaces in her photo album. So far she has 89 photos in the album. How many more photos can
                she put in before the album is full?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch12-stop-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch12-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Try solving the photo album problem using a method other than the standard algorithms you were taught in
                school. If you are tempted to start with the 9 and the 4, try a different approach. Can you solve it
                mentally using number sense? Can you solve it in more than one way? Work on this before reading further.
            </p>
        </aside>
        <p><span id="page239" class="pagebreak" title="239" />Here are just five of many methods that have been used by
            children in the primary grades to solve the computation in the photo album problem:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math239_01.png" alttext="89 plus 11" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>89</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>11</mn></math> is 100. <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="11 plus 14" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>11</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>14</mn></math> is 25.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="90 plus 10" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>90</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>10</mn></math> is 100 and 14 more is 24. I need to add 1 more because we should have started at 89, not 90,
                    so that is 25 total that I added on.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>From 114 subtract 14 to get 100, then subtract 10 more to get 90, and then 1 more to get to 89, which
                    is subtracting 25 in all.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>89, 99, 109 (that&#8217;s 20). 110, 111, 112, 113, 114 (keeping track on fingers) is 25.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math239_01.png" alttext="89 plus 11" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>89</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>11</mn></math> is 100. Adding the same amount (11) to 114 is 125. Then the difference between 125 and 100 is
                    25.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>Strategies such as these can be done mentally, are generally faster than the standard algorithms, and make
            sense to the person using them. Every day, too many children and adults resort to standard algorithms that
            they don&#8217;t fully understand and so, are often error-prone when other, more meaningful methods, like
            these alternative strategies, would be faster and more accurate.</p>
        <p>For a closer look at several alternative algorithms that explicitly emphasize place value and number sense,
            go to the University of Chicago&#8217;s Everyday Mathematics website and search &#8220;Algorithms.&#8221;
            This site provides video examples of these alternative computational algorithms as well as the research
            basis for why we should help children develop these alternative algorithms. In particular, as children learn
            these alternative algorithms they learn how quantities can be pulled apart and put back together in
            different ways (i.e., decomposition and composition of numbers), laying a foundation for understanding the
            properties of operations (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_379" >NCTM,
                2014</a>). To get a better sense of the relationship between developing conceptual understanding and
            computational f luency, watch this <strong>video</strong> (<a
                    href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFUAV00bTwA"
                    class="ulink">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFUAV00bTwA</a>) about how the Common Core
            Standards takes a balanced approach.</p>
        <p>Flexibility with a variety of computational strategies is an important tool for a mathematically literate
            citizen to be successful in daily life. It is time to broaden our perspective of what it means to compute.
            If you haven&#8217;t developed these strategies on your own, you will learn them as you read and work
            through the problems in this chapter and as you teach your children to use them!</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>