<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Introducing Fraction Language</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Introducing Fraction Language</h2>
</header>
<p><span id="page306" class="pagebreak" title="306" />Fraction symbolism represents a fairly complex convention that can be misleading to children. That is why it is important in grades preK&#8211;2 to use fraction words and postpone introducing fraction symbolism (e.g., <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_439" >Empson &amp; Levi, 2011</a>). Allow children to first focus on making sense of fractions without the complication of also trying to make sense of the symbolism.</p>
<p>In the <em>Common Core State Standard for Mathematics</em>, children are expected to learn the fraction vocabulary of <em>halves, fourths,</em> and <em>quarters</em> in first grade and then <em>thirds</em> in second grade. A good time to introduce the vocabulary of fractional parts is <em>during</em> the discussions of children&#8217;s solutions to story problems and not before. When a brownie or other whole has been partitioned into equal shares, simply say, &#8220;We call these <em>fourths.</em> The whole is cut into four equal-sized parts&#8212;fourths.&#8221;</p>
<p>Initially, children need to be aware of two aspects of fractional parts: (1) the number of parts and (2) the equality of the parts (in size, not necessarily in shape). Emphasize that the number of equal parts or fair shares (i.e., unit fractions) that make up a whole determines the name of the fractional parts or shares. For example, it takes <em>four</em> one-fourths to create the whole. Children will likely be familiar with halves but should quickly learn to describe thirds and fourths. In time, children should begin to consider the relationship between the size of the part and the whole.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="formative-0001">
<header><h2 class="title" id="formative-0001">Formative Assessment Note</h2></header>

<p>Some children think that all fractional parts are called halves. Once a child has completed a partitioning story problem, ask the child to tell you how much each person gets. The word the child uses to describe the fractional amount will tell you if the child is overgeneralizing the word <em>half</em>.</p>
</aside>
<p>Notice that in the <em>CCSM-M,</em> halves and fourths are developed in first grade prior to thirds in second grade. This is done because successive halving of parts is a natural process for young children. Once children have been successful dealing with and explaining halves and fourths, pose sharing tasks that involve eighths. They will likely rely on their halving strategy to find a solution. Likewise, once children have demonstrated an understanding of thirds, pose sharing tasks that involve sixths. Using this progression from parts that can be found through halving to parts that require a different strategy is a great way to differentiate as some children will require more time than others to demonstrate understanding of partitioning into different amounts.</p>
<p>In addition to helping children use the words <em>halves, thirds, fourths,</em> and <em>quarters,</em> be sure to make regular comparisons of fractional parts to the whole. Make it a point to use the term <em>whole, one whole,</em> or simply <em>one</em> so that children have a language that they can use regardless of the model involved.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch14-smp-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch14-smp-02">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
</header>
<p><strong>6 Attend to precision.</strong></p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>