<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Involving ALL Families</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap7-head3_7">Involving ALL Families</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Some families are at all school events and conferences; others rarely participate. However, all families want
            their children to be successful in school. Parents who do not come to school events may have anxiety related
            to their own school experiences, or they may feel completely confident that the school and its teachers are
            doing well by their child and that they do not need to participate. In some cultures, questioning a teacher
            may be perceived as disrespectful. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_235"
                >Rodr&#237;guez-Brown (2010</a>, p. 352), a researcher on Hispanic families,
            writes, &#8220;It is not that Latino parents do not want to support their children&#8217;s learning. . . .
            [They] believe that it is disrespectful to usurp the teacher&#8217;s role.&#8221;</p>
        <p>Try to find ways to build a strong rapport with all families. Some strategies to consider include the
            following:</p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p><em>Honor different strategies for doing mathematics.</em> Although this is a recommendation in
                    standards documents, it is particularly important for children from other countries because they may
                    have learned different ways to do the operations (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_218"
                        >Civil &amp; Planas, 2010</a>).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><span id="page107" class="pagebreak" title="107" /><em>Communicate with positive notes and phone
                        calls.</em> Be sure to find a way to compliment each child&#8217;s mathematical thinking (not
                    just a good score on quiz) at some point early in the school year.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Host informal gatherings to discuss mathematics teaching and learning</em>. Having regular
                    opportunities to meet with the parents allows the development of rapport and trust. Consider hosting
                    events in out-of-school facilities<em>.</em> Schools in communities with a high level of poverty
                    have found that having parent events at a community center or religious institution brings in
                    families that are reluctant to come into a school.
                </p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Incorporate homework that involves the family.</em> When a child brings in homework that tells
                    about his or her family and you provide positive feedback or a personal comment, then you are
                    establishing a two-way communication with the family via homework.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Translate letters that are sent home</em>. If you are doing a class newsletter (for families) or
                    a letter describing the next mathematics unit, make an effort to translate the letter into the
                    native language of the families represented in your class. If you cannot do this, consider having
                    the first class session include a component in which children write to their families about what
                    they are about to do. Ask them to write in their parents&#8217; first language and to include
                    visuals to support their writing. Ask parents to respond (in their language of choice). This is a
                    great practice for helping children know what they need to learn, and it communicates to families
                    that they are an important part of that learning.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Post homework on your webpage.</em> For parents who are not native speakers of English, posting
                    problems on your site makes it easier to take advantage of online translations. While these
                    translations may not be perfectly accurate, they can help parents and children understand the
                    language in the problems.</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <p>For more suggestions on ensuring that your mathematics tasks and homework are meeting the needs of culturally
            and linguistically diverse children, see <a class="xref" href="chapter0005_00.xhtml">Chapter 5</a> and read
            &#8220;NCTM Research Brief: Involving Latino and Latina Parents in Their Children&#8217;s Mathematics
            Education&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_217" >Civil &amp; Men&#233;ndez,
                2010</a>). For suggestions on students with special needs, see <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0006_00.xhtml">Chapter 6</a>.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>