<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 12: Building Strategies for Whole-Number Computation</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page237" class="pagebreak" title="237" /><span class="number">Chapter 12</span>
               
            </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
               Building Strategies for Whole-Number Computation
            </h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Flexible methods of addition and
                    subtraction involve taking apart (decomposing) and combining (composing) numbers in a wide variety
                    of ways. Much of decomposition of numbers is based on place value or compatible numbers&#8212;number
                    pairs that work easily together, such as 25 and 75.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Invented strategies are flexible
                    methods of computing that vary with the numbers and the situation. These strategies are generated by
                    the person using them through reasoning about the numbers and situations.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Flexible methods for computation
                    require a robust understanding of the operations and properties of the operations (commutative and
                    the associative property) as well as how addition and subtraction are related as inverse operations.
                </li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> The standard algorithms are
                    elegant strategies for computing that are based on performing the operation on one place value at a
                    time with transitions to an adjacent position (trading or regrouping). Standard algorithms tend to
                    cause children to think in terms of digits rather than the composite number that the digits make up,
                    resulting in children losing track of the actual value of the digits.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>5.</strong></span> Multidigit numbers can be built up
                    or taken apart in a variety of ways to make the numbers easier to work with. These parts can be used
                    to create estimates in calculations rather than using the exact numbers involved. For example, 36
                    can be thought of as 30 and 6, 4 less than 40, and as 25 plus 10 plus 1. Likewise, 483 can be
                    thought of as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math236.png" alttext="500 minus 20 plus 3" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="94px" class="informalequation"><mn>500</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>20</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></math> and as 450 and 33 more.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>6.</strong></span> Computational estimates involve
                    parts of numbers that are easier to handle or substitute difficult-to-handle numbers with close
                    compatible numbers so that the resulting computations can be done mentally.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p><span id="page238" class="pagebreak" title="238" />Much of the public sees computational skill as the
            hallmark of what it means to know mathematics at the elementary school level. Although this is far from the
            whole story, learning computational skills with whole numbers is, in fact, a very important part of the
            elementary curriculum. Expectations for competency in today&#8217;s workforce as well as in daily life mean
            that changes are warranted in how computation is taught. Rather than presenting a
            single method of adding or subtracting, children should learn that methods can and should change flexibly as
            the numbers and the context change. In the spirit of the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" >CCSSO, 2010</a>) and the <em>Principles and
                Standards for School Mathematics</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_6" >National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, 2000</a>), the goal is
            no longer just a matter of &#8220;knows how to subtract three-digit numbers;&#8221; rather, it is the
            development over time of an assortment of flexible skills that will best serve children as they prepare for
            college and careers. <em>Adding It Up</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_380"
                >National Research Council, 2001</a>) describes it this way:</p>
        <blockquote>
            <p>More than just a means to produce answers, computation is increasingly seen as a window on the deep
                structure of the number system. Fortunately, research is demonstrating that both skilled performance and
                conceptual understanding are generated by the same kinds of activities. (p. 182)</p>
        </blockquote>
        <p>According to the <em>Common Core State Standards,</em> children should solve addition and subtraction
            problems with numbers appropriate for their grade level (within 10 for kindergartners; within 100 for first
            graders; and within 1000 for second graders). First graders are expected to add two-digit numbers to
            one-digit numbers or to a multiple of 10. Second graders are expected to add two-digit and three-digit
            numbers. The solution methods range from using concrete models or drawings to strategies based on place
            value, meanings of operations, and number sense. To support the development of flexible addition and
            subtraction strategies, the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> also expect children to be able to compose
            and decompose numbers (numbers less than 20 for kindergartners; numbers less than 100 for first graders; and
            numbers less than 1000 for second graders).</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>