<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Implications for Instruction</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header id="chap16-head3_2">
            <h3 class="title">Implications for Instruction</h3>
        </header>
        <p>All teachers should be aware that the collection of geometric experiences they provide are the single most
            important factor in moving children up this developmental ladder to higher levels of geometric thought. The
            van Hiele theory and the developmental perspective of this book highlight the necessity of teaching at the
            child&#8217;s level of thought. However, almost any activity can be modified to span two levels of thinking,
            helping children move from one level to the next.</p>
        <p>As you choose activities for your children, keep in mind four features of effective geometry instruction for
            young children (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_498" >Clements &amp; Sarama,
                2014</a>):</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Show and compare a variety of examples and nonexamples.</em> Have children compare examples and
                nonexamples that look alike using some nondefining feature to help children attend to a shape&#8217;s
                relevant attributes.</li>
            <li><em>Facilitate discussions about the properties of shapes.</em> When you encourage children to describe
                shapes, expect them to initially use visual descriptions (e.g., long, pointy, etc.) but then focus their
                attention on the relevant attributes (e.g., number of sides, sides of equal length) and help them
                develop essential language along the way.</li>
            <li><em>Examine an array of shape classes that goes beyond the traditional.</em> Children in early childhood
                classrooms should experiment with and describe shapes beyond the typical circle, square, triangle, and
                rectangle. Their experiences should extend to semicircles, trapezoids, pentagons, hexagons, cubes,
                prisms, cones, and cylinders as well as different kinds of triangles and quadrilaterals and should
                include different orientations and sizes.</li>
            <li><em>Challenge children with a wide range of geometric tasks at every level.</em> The use of physical
                materials, drawings, and computer models at every level of geometric thought is a must. Activities
                should also require and support children&#8217;s ref lection about the ideas they are learning.</li>
        </ul>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch16-smp-03">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="ch16-smp-03">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h4>
            </header>
            <p><strong>6 Attend to precision.</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <p><strong>Watch</strong> (<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-v2D75Va_3Y"
                    class="ulink">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-v2D75Va_3Y</a>) Douglas Clements talk about
            the issues with imprecision with many geometry activities found in the early grades and his recommendations
            for alternative activities.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Moving from Prerecognition to Level 0</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Instructional considerations that support children transitioning from the prerecognition level to level 0 are
            as follows:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Provide opportunities for children to identify shapes in their classroom, school, and
                    community.</em> However, be careful about using imprecise examples, as Doug Clements describes in
                the previous video.</li>
            <li><span id="page373" class="pagebreak" title="373" /><em>Involve children in lots of experiences sorting
                    shapes and describing why they believe a particular shape belongs to a group as well as why a
                    particular shape does not belong.</em> Include a sufficient variety of examples of shapes so that
                irrelevant features (e.g., orientation, size, color) do not become important.</li>
            <li><em>Engage children in ample opportunities to copy and build shapes using a wide variety of
                    materials.</em> These activities should help children focus on the relevant and irrelevant
                attributes of shapes.</li>
        </ul>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Moving from Level 0 to Level 1</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Instructional considerations that support children moving from level 0 to level 1
            are as follows:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li><em>Focus on the properties of figures rather than simple identification.</em> As new geometric concepts
                are learned, children should be challenged to use these attributes to classify shapes.</li>
            <li><em>Challenge children to test ideas about shapes using a variety of examples from a particular
                    category.</em> Say to them, &#8220;Let&#8217;s see if that is true for other rectangles,&#8221; or
                &#8220;Can you draw a triangle that does not have a right angle?&#8221; In general, question children to
                see whether observations made about a particular shape apply to other shapes of a similar kind.</li>
            <li><em>Provide ample opportunities for children to draw, build, make, put together (compose), and take
                    apart (decompose) shapes in both two and three dimensions.</em> These activities should be built
                around understanding and using specific characteristics or properties.</li>
            <li><em>Apply ideas to entire classes of figures (</em>such as <em>all</em> rectangles, <em>all</em>
                prisms<em>) rather than to individual models.</em> For example, find ways to sort all possible triangles
                into groups. From these groups, define types of triangles.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The remainder of this chapter offers a sampling of activities organized around the four content strands found
            in the NCTM <em>Principles and Standards for School Mathematics</em>:
            Shapes and Properties, Transformations, Location, and Visualization. Understand that all of these
            subdivisions are quite f luid: the content areas overlap and build on each other. Activities found in one
            section may help develop geometric thinking in another content strand.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>