<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 9: Developing Meanings for the Operations</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page146" class="pagebreak" title="146" /><span class="number">Chapter 9</span>
               </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">Developing Meanings for the Operations</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">BIG IDEAS</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span>
                    Addition can be thought of as physically or conceptually placing two or more quantities together.
                </li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span>
                    Subtraction can be thought of as taking an amount away from a given quantity, comparing two
                    quantities, or finding a missing part given the whole and the other part.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span>
                    Multiplication in grades preK&#8211;2 involves counting groups of equal size and determining how
                    many are in all.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span>
                    Division in grades preK&#8211;2 can be thought of as sharing equal amounts among a given number of
                    groups or as repeatedly measuring out the same amount from a given total.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>5.</strong></span>
                    The four operations are related to each other. Addition names the whole in terms of the parts, and
                    subtraction names a missing part. Multiplication can be thought of as repeated addition. Division
                    names a missing factor in terms of the known factor and the product. Division can also be thought of
                    as repeated subtraction.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>6.</strong></span>
                    Models can be used to solve contextual problems for all operations and to figure out what operation
                    is involved in a problem. Models also can be used to give meaning to number sentences.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p><span id="page147" class="pagebreak" title="147" />This chapter is about helping children connect different
            meanings, interpretations, and relationships to the four operations of addition, subtraction,
            multiplication, and division so that they can accurately and fluently apply these operations in real-world
            settings. This is all part of the Operations Core (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_288"
                >National Research Council [NRC], 2009</a>), in which children learn to see
            mathematical situations in their daily lives or in story problems and begin to make models of these
            situations using a variety of representations such as words, diagrams, manipulatives, and/or numbers (e.g.,
            equations). The Operations Core builds and expands on the NRC&#8217;s Number Core and Relations Core
            discussed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0008_00.xhtml">Chapter 8</a> and will be extended in the
            discussion of place value in <a class="xref" href="chapter0011_00.xhtml">Chapter 11</a>. As children learn
            to connect the big ideas listed above, they can and should simultaneously be developing more sophisticated
            ideas about number, recognizing ways to think about basic fact combinations, and accurately and fluently
            applying these operations in real-world situation. All of this develops <em>operation sense.</em></p>
        <p>In the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_270"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>), children in K-2 are expected to be able to think about
            addition and subtraction situations that involve adding to, taking from, putting together, and taking apart
            using increasingly sophisticated strategies. In kindergarten, children model the situations using fingers,
            manipulatives, drawings, and mental images. In first grade, children expand their modeling to the use of
            equations and in second grade, children use primarily diagrams, equations, and mental strategies to model
            and reason through situations. Solving comparison situations is added to the expectations in first and
            second grades. Second graders also begin to explore multiplication as equal groups, using rectangular arrays
            to model problems.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>