<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Tasks</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Tasks</h2>
</header>
<p><em>Tasks</em> refer to products that include performance-based tasks, writing, and children&#8217;s self-assessments. Good assessment tasks for either instructional or formative assessment purposes should permit every child, regardless of mathematical ability, to demonstrate his or her knowledge, skill, or understanding.<span id="page44" class="pagebreak" title="44" /></p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch03-head-03">Problem-Based Tasks</h3>
</header>
<p><em>Problem-based tasks</em> are tasks that are connected to actual problem-solving activities used in instruction. High-quality tasks permit every child to demonstrate his or her abilities (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_91" >Rigelman &amp; Petrick, 2014</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_93" >Smith &amp; Stein, 2011</a>) and include real-world or authentic contexts that interest children or relate to recent classroom events. Of course, be mindful that English language learners may need support with context as challenges with language should not overshadow the attention to their mathematical ability.</p>
<p>Problem-based tasks have several critical components that make them effective. They:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Focus on an important mathematics concept or skill aligned to valued learning targets.</p></li>
<li><p>Stimulate the connection of children&#8217;s previous knowledge to new content.</p></li>
<li><p>Allow multiple solution methods or approaches that incorporate a variety of tools.</p></li>
<li><p>Offer opportunities for children to correct themselves along the way.</p></li>
<li><p>Provide occasions for children to confront common misconceptions.</p></li>
<li><p>Encourage children to use reasoning and explain their thinking.</p></li>
<li><p>Create opportunities for observing children&#8217; use of mathematical processes and practices.</p></li>
<li><p>Generate data for instructional decision making as you listen to your children&#8217;s thinking.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Notice that the following examples of problem-based tasks are not elaborate, yet when followed by a discussion, each can engage children for most of a class session
(also see <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Problem-Based_Tasks_Grades_Pre-K&#8211;2_R.pdf" class="ulink">Problem-Based Tasks</a>). What mathematical ideas and practices are required to successfully respond to each of these tasks?</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="print01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="print01">Partitioning (Grades K&#8211;1):</h2></header>
<p>Learning Targets: (1) Decompose numbers in a problem situation. (2) Use reasoning and regularity of patterns to make sense of quantities and the relationships of quantities. Six bowls of cereal are placed at two different tables. Draw a picture to show a way that six bowls might be placed at two tables. Can you find more than one way? How many ways do you think there are?</p>
</aside>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="print02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="print02">Shares (Grades K&#8211;2):</h2></header>
<p>Learning Targets: (1) Solve problems involving the operations. (2) Use manipulatives and words to describe a solution.</p>
<p>Leila has 6 gumdrops, Darlene has 2, and Melissa has 4. They want to share them equally. How will they do it? Draw a picture to help explain your answer.</p>
</aside>
<p>At second grade, the numbers in the &#8220;Shares&#8221; task should be larger. What additional concepts would be involved if the task were about sharing cookies and the total number of cookies, 34, was given?</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="print03">
<header><h2 class="title" id="print03">One Up, One Down (Grades 1&#8211;2):</h2></header>
<p>Learning Targets: (1) Work with addition equations. (2) Look for and make use of structure.</p>
<p>When you add <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render33.png" alttext="7 plus 7" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>7</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>7</mn></mrow></math>, you get 14. When you make the first number 1 more and the second number 1 less, you get the same answer. Does this work any time the numbers are the same? Does it work when the addends are not the same?</p>
</aside>
<p><span id="page45" class="pagebreak" title="45" />Much can be learned about children&#8217;s understanding in a discussion that follows children solving the task individually. In particular, it is important for children to compare and make connections between strategies and debate ideas in order to assist them in organizing their thoughts and analyzing the ideas of others.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>