<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Ensure Shared Power</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-06">Ensure Shared Power </h3>
        </header>
        <p>When we think about creating a positive classroom environment, one in which all children feel as if they can
            participate and learn, we are addressing considerations related to power. The teacher plays a major role in
            establishing and distributing power, whether intentional or not. In many classrooms, the teacher has the
            power&#8212;telling children whether answers are right or wrong (rather than having children determine
            correctness through reasoning), dictating processes for how to solve problems (rather than giving choices
            for how children will engage in the problems), and determining who will solve which problems (rather than
            allowing flexibility and choice for children). Effective teachers encourage children to make mathematics
            contributions and validate reasoning, reaching a higher level of rigor (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_139"
                >Gresalfi &amp; Cobb, 2006</a>). The way that you assign groups, seat children,
            and call on children sends clear messages about who has power in the classroom. The &#8220;assigning
            competence&#8221; strategy just described in student mathematical identities is a teacher move to distribute
            power (who knows the math in our class). When teachers position ELLs as contributing in meaningful ways to
            the group, other children begin to see ELLs in similar ways, eliciting and valuing their ideas (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_169" >Yoon, 2008</a>). And, when teachers delegate
            authority to marginalized children, they learn more (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_133"
                >Dunleavy, 2015</a>). </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch5_teach03">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch5_teach03">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>In reflecting on teaching, focus on student participation. Which children struggled most? Were there
                multiple entry points? How might certain children have been encouraged to participate more?</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>