<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Teaching Strategies That Support Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Children</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Teaching Strategies That Support Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Children</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Culture and language are interwoven and interrelated. Therefore, teaching strategies that support diverse
            learners often attend to a children&#8217;s background, as well as their language. Creating effective
            learning opportunities for ELLs involves integrating the principles of <span id="page71" class="pagebreak"
                title="71" />bilingual education with those of standards-based mathematics instruction. When learning
            about mathematics, children may be learning content in English for which they do not know the words in their
            native language. For example, words such as <em>hexagons, cylinders,</em> and <em>prisms</em> may be
            entirely new terminology.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-stop-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch05-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Consider recent lessons you have taught, or look at four or five pages in a textbook. See how many words
                you can identify that are unique or take on a specialized meaning in mathematics.</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch5_teach04">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch5_teach04">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Any one of the categories in <a
                class="xref" href="chapter0005_06.xhtml#Tab_5-3">Table 5.3</a> could be the focus of a lesson study, discussions with colleagues,
                or the basis for individual reflection. The importance lies not in the specific suggestions, but in the
                concept of having an eye on language development <em>and</em> mathematics content.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Story problems may also be difficult for ELLs not just because of the language but also because the sentences
            in story problems are often structured differently from sentences in conversational English (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_143" >Janzen, 2008</a>). ELLs need to use both
            English and their native language to read, write, listen, and speak as they learn appropriate
            content&#8212;a position similarly addressed in NCTM standards documents and position statements. The
            strategies discussed in this section are the ones that appear most frequently in the literature as critical
            to increasing the academic achievement of ELLs in mathematics classrooms (e.g. <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_125" >Celed&#243;n-Pattichis &amp; Ramirez,
                2012</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_134" >Echevarria, Vogt, &amp; Short,
                2008</a>). <a class="xref" href="chapter0005_06.xhtml#Tab_5-3">Table 5.3</a> <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Reflective_Questions_for_Planning_and_Teaching_Mathematics_Lessons_to_English_Language_Learners.pdf"
                class="ulink">Reflective questions for planning and teaching mathematics lessons for ELLs</a> offers an
            &#8220;at-a-glance&#8221; format of some reflective questions related to instructional planning and
            teaching to support ELLs. </p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_5-3">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">5.3</span> Reflective questions
                    for planning and teaching mathematics lessons for ELLs.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Process</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Mathematics Content Considerations</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Language Considerations</strong></th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td colspan="3"><strong>Reflective Questions for Planning</strong></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1. Determine the mathematics.</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What mathematical concepts (aligned to grade-level standards) am I teaching?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What child-friendly learning objectives will I post?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How does this mathematics concept connect to other concepts children have learned?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What language objectives might I add (e.g., reading, writing, speaking, and
                                    listening)?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What visuals or words will I use to communicate the content and language objectives?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>2. Consider student needs.</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>How can I connect the content to be taught to content that children have learned? Or,
                                    how will I fill in gaps if children don&#8217;t have prerequisite content needed for
                                    the lesson?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What context or models might I select that are a good match to children&#8217;s
                                    social and cultural backgrounds and previously learned vocabulary?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>3.Select, design, or adapt a task.</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What task can I use that addresses the content identified in No. 1 and the needs of
                                    my children identified in No. 2?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How might I adapt a task so that it has multiple entry and exit points (i.e., is
                                    challenging and accessible to a range of children)?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What context might I use that is meaningful to the children&#8217;s cultures and
                                    backgrounds?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What language pitfalls does the task have? Which of these will I eliminate, and which
                                    of these need explicit attention?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Which words or phrases, even if familiar to children, take on new meaning in a
                                    mathematics context (e.g., homonyms, homophones, and words such as sum, value,
                                    find)?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td colspan="3"><strong>Reflective Questions for Teaching</strong></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>1. Introduce the task (the <em>Before</em> phase).</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>How will I introduce the task in a way that elicits prior mathematics knowledge
                                    needed for the task?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Is a similar task needed to build background related to the content (or would such a
                                    preview take away from the purpose or challenge of the task)?<span id="page72"
                                        class="pagebreak" title="72" /></p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>How can I connect the task to children&#8217;s experiences and to familiar contexts?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What key vocabulary do I want to introduce so that the words will be used throughout
                                    the lesson? (Post key vocabulary in a prominent location.)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What visuals and real objects can I use that bring meaning to the selected task?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How can I present the task in visual, written, and oral formats?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How will I be sure that children understand what they are to do in the
                                    <em>During</em> phase?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>2. Work on the task (the <em>During</em> phase).</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What hints or assists might I give as children work that help them focus without
                                    taking away their thinking?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What extensions or challenges will I offer for children who successfully solve the
                                    task?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What questions will I pose to push the mathematics identified in the learning goals?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Have I grouped children for both academic and language support?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Have I encouraged children to draw pictures, make diagrams, and/or use manipulatives?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Have I used strategies to reduce the linguistic demands (e.g., graphic organizers,
                                    sentence starters such as, &#8220;I solved the problem by . . .,&#8221; recording
                                    tables, and concept maps) without hindering the problem solving?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td> 3. Debrief and discuss the task and the mathematics (the <em>After</em> phase).</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>How will children report their findings?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How will I format the discussion of the task?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What questions will I pose to push the mathematics identified in the learning goals?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>In what ways can I maximize language use in nonthreatening ways (e.g.,
                                    think&#8211;pair&#8211;share)?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How can I encourage and reinforce different formats (multiple exit points) for
                                    demonstrating understanding of the lesson content?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How might I provide advance notice, language support, or rehearsal to English
                                    language learners so that they will be comfortable speaking to their peers?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Am I using appropriate &#8220;wait time&#8221;?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td colspan="3"><strong>Formative Assessment</strong></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Throughout lesson and unit</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What questions will I ask during the lesson, or what will I look for in the
                                    children&#8217;s work as evidence of learning the objectives (<em>During</em> and
                                    <em>After</em> phases)?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What follow-up might I provide to children who are not demonstrating understanding of
                                    the mathematics?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>What words will I use in my questions to be sure the questions are understood? How
                                    might I use a translator to assist in assessing? </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>If a child is not succeeding, how might I diagnose whether the problem is with
                                    language, content, or both? </p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What accommodations can I provide to be sure I am accessing what the children know?
                                </p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-07">Focus on Academic Vocabulary</h3>
        </header>
        <p>ELLs enter the mathematics classroom from homes in which English is not the primary language of
            communication. Although a person may develop conversational English language skills in a few years, it takes
            as many as seven years to learn <em>academic language,</em> which is the language specific to a content area
            such as mathematics (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_131" >Cummins, 1994</a>).
            <span id="page73" class="pagebreak" title="73" />Academic language is harder to learn because it is not used
            in a child&#8217;s everyday world. In addition, there are unique features of the language of mathematics
            that make it difficult for many children, in particular those who are learning English. Teaching the
            academic language of mathematics evolves over time and requires thoughtful and reflective instructional
            planning.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Honor Use of Native Language</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Valuing a child&#8217;s native language is one of the ways you value his or her cultural heritage. In a
            mathematics classroom, children can communicate in their native languages while continuing their English
            language development (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_142" >Haas &amp; Gort,
                2009</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_152" >Moschkovich, 2009</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_161" >Setati, 2005</a>). For example, a good
            strategy for children working individually or in small groups is having them think about and discuss the
            problem in their preferred language. If a child knows enough English, then the presentation in the
            <em>After</em> phase of the lesson can be shared in English. If the child knows little or no English and
            does not have access to a peer who shares his or her native language, then a translator, the use of a
            Web-based dictionary, or a self-made mathematics-focused dictionary can be a strong support. Children within
            the small group can also be coached to use visual aids and pictures to communicate. Bilingual children will
            often code-switch, moving between two languages. Research indicates that the practice of code-switching
            supports mathematical reasoning because children select the language in which they can best express their
            ideas (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_152" >Moschkovich, 2009</a>). </p>
        <p>Certain native languages can support learning mathematical words. Because English, Spanish, French,
            Portuguese, and Italian all have their roots in Latin, many math words are similar across languages (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_124" >Celed&#243;n-Pattichis, 2009</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_138" >G&#243;mez, 2010</a>). For example,
            <em>aequus</em> (Latin), <em>equal</em> (English), and <em>igual</em> (Spanish) are cognates. See if you can
            figure out the English mathematical terms for the following Spanish words: <em>n&#250;mero, diferencia,
                hex&#225;gano, &#225;ngulo, tri&#225;ngulo, quadra,</em> and <em>cubo</em>. Children may not make this
            connection if you do not point it out, so it is important to explicitly teach children to look for cognates.
        </p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Use Content and Language Objectives </h4>
        </header>
        <p>If children know the purpose of a lesson, they are better able to make sense of the details when they are
            challenged by some of the oral or written explanations. When language expectations are explicitly included,
            children will know that they will be responsible for reaching certain language goals alongside mathematical
            goals and will be more likely to attempt to learn those skills or words. Here are two examples of dual
            objectives: </p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p>Children will determine the defining attributes of a triangle (mathematics).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Children will describe in writing and speaking characteristics that are true for any triangle (e.g.,
                    three angles) and that characteristics do not define a triangle (e.g., color, size) (language and
                    mathematics).</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Explicitly Teach Vocabulary</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Intentional vocabulary instruction must be part of mathematics instruction for all children. There is strong
            evidence that teaching a set of academic vocabulary words intensively across several days using a variety of
            instructional activities supports ELLs (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_119" >Baker
                et al., 2014</a>). Vocabulary support can happen throughout a lesson, as well as reinforced before or
            after a lesson. These additional opportunities can reinforce understanding as they help children learn the
            terminology. Examples include these:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p>Picture dictionaries linking concepts and terms with drawings or cut out pictures</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Foldables of key words for a topic (for example, see <em>Dinah Zike&#8217;s Teaching Mathematics with
                        Foldables</em> (Zike, n.d.), a free download)<span id="page74" class="pagebreak" title="74" />
                </p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Games focused on vocabulary development (e.g., &#8220;Pictionary&#8221; or
                    &#8220;Concentration&#8221;)</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Interactive word walls, including visuals and translations</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Graphic organizers that look at multiple ways to help define a term (for example, <a
                        href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Vocabulary_Reference_Card_Template.pdf"
                        class="ulink">Vocabulary Reference Card Template</a>)</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>All children benefit from an increased focus on language; however, too much emphasis on vocabulary can
            diminish the focus on mathematics. Importantly, the language support should be <em>connected</em> to the
            mathematics and the selected task or activity (Bay-Williams &amp; Livers, 2009). </p>
        <p>As you analyze a lesson, you must identify terms related to the mathematics and to the context that may need
            explicit attention. Consider the following kindergarten question: </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-6">
            <p>MacKenna and Sydney pick red and yellow apples from the apple orchard. Sydney picks five apples to take
                home. How many of each kind of apple might she take? </p>
        </aside>
        <p>In order for children to engage in this task, the contextual terms <em>pick, apples,</em> and <em>orchard</em>
            must be understood. The phrase <em>how many of each</em> must be understood, as it may not be clear that
            this means to have some apples of each color so that the total is five apples. In first and second grades,
            children could be asked to list all the combinations in a table. </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="Stop and Reflect 2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch01-stop-02">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p><em>Table</em> is among hundreds of words whose meanings in mathematics are different from everyday
                usage. Other such terms include <em>difference, foot, multiple, partition, side,</em> and <em>angle</em>.
                Can you name five others?</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>