<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Final Thoughts: Outcomes Related to Teaching and Learning Operations</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Final Thoughts: Outcomes Related to Teaching and Learning Operations</h2>
</header>
<p>In a chapter about developing the meanings of operations, we have spent quite a bit of space emphasizing the use of story problems and contextual problems to achieve this goal. It is primarily through analyzing, making sense of, and solving story problems and contextual problems that children will gain a full understanding of which operation to use in any given <span id="page178" class="pagebreak" title="178"/>situation. As children are engaged in this work they are also developing number skills and concepts that eventually will provide the foundations for mastery of basic facts. They also are developing computational fluency as they develop and master many different methods for computing. Place-value ideas will be enhanced and utilized as children find new and better ways to break numbers apart and combine them.</p>
<p>The hope is that we have made clear that there is much more to story problems than simply having children get answers. We want them to develop number skills and computational techniques as well as to have a rich understanding of the operations. To attend to these goals requires that we think carefully about the problems we pose. What operation structures do children need to work on? What numbers will challenge children but not overwhelm them? In other words, think of story problems and contextual situations as a means to an end rather than an end in themselves.</p>
<p>In helping children develop an understanding of operations, we also need to be aware of and look for common misconceptions that children develop along the way so that we can purposefully address these in a timely manner. <a class="xref" href="chapter0009_21.xhtml#tab_9-3">Table 9.3</a> provides a list of common misconceptions related to operations and ways we can help children move beyond them.</p>
<figure class="figure lc_img100 fx-lightbox" id="tab_9-3">
<header><h3 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">9.3</span>Common errors and misconceptions in operations and how to help.</h3></header>
</figure>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col"><strong>Misconception/Error</strong></th>
<th scope="col"><strong>What it Looks Like</strong></th>
<th scope="col"><strong>How to Help</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered"><li><p>Child thinks that addition only means &#8220;join&#8221; or &#8220;put together&#8221; and subtraction only means &#8220;separate&#8221; or &#8220;take away&#8221;</p></li></ol></td>
<td>Struggles to solve part&#8211;part&#8211;whole and compare problems. For example, the child consistently adds the two given numbers without regard to the numbers&#8217; relationship within the situation. <p>When asked to write a story problem for <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178.png" alttext="9 minus 5 equals square" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>9</mn><mo>-</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#x25A1;</mo></math> can only write &#8220;separate&#8221;/&#8221;take away&#8221; problems.</p> <p>When reading a subtraction number sentence, such as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178.png" alttext="9 minus 5 equals square" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>9</mn><mo>-</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#x25A1;</mo></math>, reads it as &#8220;9 take away 5.&#8221;</p> <p>Struggles with understanding how another child uses <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_1.png" alttext="12 minus 8 equals square" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>12</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#x25A1;</mo></math> to solve the following part&#8211;part&#8211;whole problem:</p>
<ul class="bulleted"><li><p>George has 12 coins. Eight of his coins are pennies, and the rest are nickels. How many nickels does George have?</p></li></ul></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Make sure to pose story problems and contextual problems that include all four problem types (join, separate, part&#8211;part&#8211;whole, compare) with the unknown quantity in different locations so children gain experience thinking about and solving a variety of situations.</p></li>
<li><p>Have available and encourage the use of physical materials for children to model story/ contextual problems. Discuss what they have done to determine the answer. When children are ready for symbols, symbolically record what they have done.</p></li>
<li><p>Explicitly discuss and highlight situations where children used subtraction/addition but the situation was not &#8220;take away&#8221;/&#8221;put together.&#8221;</p></li>
<li><p>Read the &#8220; &#x00332; &#8221; sign as &#8220;minus&#8221; not &#8220;take away&#8221; and the &#8220; &#x0002B; &#8221; sign as &#8220;plus.&#8221;</p></li>
<li><p>When children use equivalent equations to solve the same story problem (<math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_2.png" alttext="square plus 4 equals 12" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mo>&#x25A1;</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>12</mn></math> and <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_3.png" alttext="12 minus 4 equals square" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>12</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#x25A1;</mo></math>), ask children to discuss why this is possible.</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="2"><li><p>Child treats the equal sign as an operator and as a signal to do a computation</p></li></ol></td>
<td>For <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_4.png" alttext="5 plus 4 equals __ plus 3 comma" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>=</mo><mi>__</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo></math> says the __ should be 9 because <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_5.png" alttext="5 plus 4 equals 9" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>9</mn></math>. <p>When asked if <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render64.png" alttext="6 equals 6" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>6</mn><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>6</mn></math>, says no, because there is no computation to do.</p> <p>When asked if <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math178_6.png" alttext="7 equals 3 plus 4" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>7</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>4</mn></math>, says no, because &#8220;you can&#8217;t write it that way because there is no computation to do with 7.&#8221;</p></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Use a balance to illustrate the relational meaning of the equal sign (see <a class="xref" href="chapter0013_00.xhtml">Chapter 13</a> for details)</p></li>
<li><p>Read the equal sign as &#8220;is the same as&#8221; and &#8220;equals&#8221;</p></li>
<li><p>Avoid saying <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render79.png" alttext="5 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></math> &#8220;makes&#8221; 8 because the word &#8220;makes&#8221; sounds like an operation or that you have to do something.</p></li>
<li><p>Pose true/false number sentences like in <a class="xref" href="chapter0009_08.xhtml#Act_9_2">Activity 9.2</a>.</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="3"><li><p><span id="page179" class="pagebreak" title="179"/>Child overgeneralizes the commutative property of addition to subtraction</p></li></ol></td>
<td>In solving <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179.png" alttext="54 minus 17" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>54</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>17</mn></math>, subtracts <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_1.png" alttext="4 minus 7" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>4</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>7</mn></math> as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_2.png" alttext="7 minus 4" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>7</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>4</mn></math>. <p>When asked to think about what <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_3.png" alttext="3 minus 8" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>3</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>8</mn></math> could mean, child responds it is 5 because <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_4.png" alttext="8 minus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>8</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>3</mn></math> equals 5.</p></td>
	<td>
		<ul>
			<li><p>Pose story problems, such as &#8220;separate&#8221; or &#8220;take away&#8221; situations that switch the two numbers. Have children model the problems with counters and compare the results. Examples:</p>
				<ul class="none">
					<li><p>&#8226; Katie has 7 cookies and gives 4 of them to her brother.</p></li>
					<li><p>&#8226; Katie has 4 cookies and wants to give 7 cookies to her brother.</p></li>
				</ul></li>
		</ul>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="4"><li><p>Child thinks that adding zero makes a number bigger and subtracting zero makes a number smaller</p></li></ol></td>
<td><p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_5.png" alttext="6 plus 0 equals 7" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>7</mn></math> (because addition makes bigger)</p> 
<p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_6.png" alttext="12 minus 0 equals 11" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>12</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>11</mn></math> (because subtraction makes smaller)</p></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Use story problems that introduce the idea of adding and subtracting zero in a meaningful context that children can act out.</p></li>
<li><p>Avoid offering meaningless rules or rhymes for children to memorize.</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="5"><li><p>Child counts tick marks or numbers on the number line instead of the intervals between the numbers</p></li></ol></td>
<td>When the child counts using a number line, the count is consistently off by 1. <p>Points to the tick marks or numbers as they count.</p></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Use the sequence of number line models in <a class="xref" href="chapter0009_09.xhtml#fig_9-4">Figure 9.4</a> to emphasize what is counted on a number line.</p></li>
<li><p>When using a number line in a class discussion, use physical hops and arrows to emphasize what is being counted.</p></li>
<li><p>Use e-manipulatives (like those described in the chapter) that use animals that hop along the number line to emphasize it is the space or interval that is counted.</p></li>
<li><p>Pose story problems that involve the action of hopping, such as hopping frogs or jumping bunnies.</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="6"><li><p>Child treats factors of 0 and 1 as if the operation is addition/ subtraction</p></li></ol></td>
<td><p>Child responds as follows:<br />
	<math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/maths179_7.png" alttext="5 space cross times space 0 space equals space 5" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="80" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>&#xD7;</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>5</mn></math></p>

	<p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_7.png" alttext="5 cross times 0 equals 5 space 5 cross times 1 equals 6" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>5</mn><mo>&#xD7;</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>6</mn></math></p></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted"><li><p>Use story problems that introduce the idea of equal groups or number of groups of zero/one in a meaningful context that children can act out.</p></li>
<li><p>Avoid offering meaningless rules or rhymes for children to memorize.</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><ol class="numbered" start="7"><li><p>Child interprets particular words to always mean specific operations (e.g., left means subtract; more means add)</p></li></ol></td>
<td>Child solves story problems by using key words to decide which operation to use. For example, sees the word &#8220;more&#8221; in the following problem and adds the numbers given <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math179_8.png" alttext="left parenthesis 8 plus 13 equals 21 right parenthesis" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mo>(</mo><mn>8</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>13</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>21</mn><mo>)</mo></math>: <p>Josie has 13 puppies. Randy has 8 puppies. How many more puppies does Josie have?</p>
<p>Child is stumped when faced with story problems that have no key words, such as:</p> <p>Josie has 13 puppies. 8 of them are brown. The others are white. How many are white?</p></td>
<td><ul class="bulleted"><li><p>Do not teach key words to solve word problems.</p></li>
<li><p>Make sure to pose story problems and contextual problems that include all four problem types (join, separate, part&#8211;part&#8211;whole, compare) with the unknown quantity in different locations so children gain experience thinking about and solving a variety of situations.</p></li>
<li><p>Have available and encourage the use of physical materials for children to model story/contextual problems. Discuss what they have done to determine the answer. When children are ready for symbols, symbolically record what they have done.</p></li>
<li><p>Use the suggestions for analyzing contextual problems shared in the chapter to help those children who struggle with where to begin (e.g., think about the answer before solving the problem; solve a simpler problem).</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</section>
</body>
</html>