<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Variations of the Three-Phase Lesson</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-14">Variations of the Three-Phase Lesson</h3>
</header>
<p>The basic lesson structure we have been discussing assumes that the lesson is developed around a task given to the whole class. However, not every lesson is structured in this way. The three-phase format can be applied to other lesson structures, such as mini-lessons and learning centers.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Mini-Lessons</h4>
</header>
<p>A three-phase lesson that capitalizes on the use of routines can be accomplished in as few as 10 minutes. These mini-lessons are not intended to replace the math curriculum or consume most of the instruction time for math, but like in longer lessons, children are expected to use strategies that make sense to them and to explain their thinking. A routine called <span id="page36" class="pagebreak" title="36" /><em>Number Talks</em>, already embraced in many elementary classrooms, engages children in using number relationships and the structures of numbers to do mental computations, followed by sharing their various strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_40" >Humphreys &amp; Parker, 2015</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_53" >Parrish, 2014</a>). These brief routines are praised for developing children&#8217;s number sense as well as their enthusiasm for thinking about and sharing their strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_52" >Parrish, 2011</a>). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_48" >McCoy, Barnett, and Combs (2013)</a> share seven mathematical routines that can be easily used with a variety of mathematical content and at various grade levels. One routine, <em>Alike and Different</em>, requires children to consider how two or more numbers, shapes, properties, and so on are similar and different. Having children explain and justify their reasons for the similarities and differences they identify is valuable experience in constructing mathematical arguments. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_48" >McCoy, Barnett, and Combs (2013)</a> also identify ways to increase the cognitive demand of tasks as children become familiar with a given routine.</p>
<p>Once the routine is introduced and understood by children, the <em>before</em> part of the mini-lesson involves posing the task to the children and ensuring they understand the vocabulary and any context used. In the <em>during</em> portion of the mini-lesson, children spend time developing their own ideas about the task. You can then have the children pair with a classmate and discuss each other&#8217;s strategies. You can also have small groups discuss or go straight to the whole class to share and compare strategies. Just keep in mind that think-pair-share provides an opportunity to test out ideas and to practice articulating them. For ELLs, children with learning disabilities, and children who are reluctant to participate in larger groups, this offers both a nonthreatening chance to speak and an opportunity to practice what they might later say to the whole class. Like in longer lessons, the <em>after</em> part of the mini-lesson involves children sharing, justifying, questioning, and looking for connections between ideas.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Learning Centers</h4>
</header>
<p>Sometimes a mathematical concept or topic can be explored by having children work on different tasks at various classroom locations or <em>learning centers</em>. Children can work on concepts or topics in learning centers as an initial introduction, as a midway exploration, or as a follow-up task that provides practice or allows extension. Because you can decide which children will be assigned to which centers, you can differentiate the content at each center. For example, each center can use different manipulatives, situations, or technology, require children to use a different approach to solve a problem, or vary in terms of the difficulty of the task (e.g., different centers can use different numbers that change the level of difficulty). (For more information regarding differentiation see <a class="xref" href="chapter0004_00.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>.)</p>
<p>For a given topic, you might prepare four to eight different activities (you can also use the same activity at two different learning centers). However, be sure to keep the centers focused on the same topic or concept so that you can help children build connections across the centers. Using centers that focus on a variety of topics will more likely result in a disconnected learning experience for children.</p>
<p>When using learning centers, it is still important to think about the <em>before</em> phase in which you elicit prior knowledge, ensure the task is understood, and establish clear expectations. For example, to ensure greater student success at the centers, model what happens at each center and review any necessary skills and vocabulary. The <em>during</em> phase is still the time where children engage in the task, but with learning centers, they stop and rotate to new centers within this phase of the lesson. It is still important to interact with and ask children questions as they engage in tasks from the different centers and even more important to keep track of their strategies, including those you will later highlight. In the <em>after</em> phase, you may decide to focus on one particular center, begin with the least challenging center and progress to the most challenging one, or instead of discussing each center, ask children to talk about what they learned about the target topic or concept.</p>
<p>A good task for a learning center is one that can be repeated multiple times during one visit. This allows children to remain engaged until you are ready for them to transition to <span id="page37" class="pagebreak" title="37" />another center or activity. For example, at one center children might play a &#8220;game&#8221; in which they take turns covering part of a known number of counters while the other child names the amount in the covered part. Technology-enhanced tasks on the computer or interactive whiteboard that can be repeated can provide the focus of a center, but these tasks must be carefully selected. Among other aspects, you will want to choose technology-based tasks that require children to engage in reflective thought. For example, &#8220;Hiding Ladybug&#8221; in the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics online resources (search for &#8220;NCTM illuminations 4.3.1 hiding ladybug&#8221;) offers children opportunities to plan and check a path for a ladybug to take so it can hide under a leaf. They can quickly check to see whether their plan works, make changes based on the results, and check the revised plan. As they engage in this interactive environment, they are enhancing their understanding of location and movement in space. Once they have successfully created a path, they can move the leaf and start the challenge again. Even if a learning center, such as this one, is used for independent work, the three-phase model can be implemented by placing a series of reflective questions at the center for children to use as they participate in the tasks.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>