<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Connections to Real-World Ideas</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Connections to Real-World Ideas</h2>
</header>
<p>As children study place-value concepts, encourage them to notice numbers in the world around them. Children in the first grade should be thinking about numbers up to 100 and second graders should be thinking about numbers up to 1000 (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_348" >CCSSO, 2010</a>). Where are numbers like this in your school? You might use the number of children in a particular grade, the number of children who ride to school on buses, the number of minutes devoted to mathematics each day or week, or the number of days since school has started. There are measurements and numbers discovered on field trips, in other subject areas, and so on. And then there are places outside of school to notice numbers: In grocery stores, sporting complexes, and newspapers to name just a few. Children&#8217;s literature can also provide a springboard for connecting place value to real-world activities. For example, <em>Earth Day, Hooray!</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_353" >Murphy, 2004</a>) combines place value and recycling as children at an elementary school struggle to keep track of the aluminum cans they collect to recycle.</p>
<p>Look for ways to help your children make sense of the size of the numbers they are learning about. For example, did you know that a horse, a polar bear, and a grand piano each weigh about 1,000 pounds? That the Eiffel Tower is about 1,000 feet tall? Or that a typical <span id="page236" class="pagebreak" title="236"/>ear of corn has about 800 kernels? Check out other ideas to build familiarity with benchmark numbers and units in the chapter on measurement (<a class="xref" href="chapter0015_00.xhtml">Chapter 15</a>).</p>
<p>You do not need a prescribed activity to bring real numbers into the classroom. You can turn them into interesting graphs, write stories using them, and make up problems. For example, children can investigate how many cartons of chocolate and plain milk are served in the cafeteria each month? Can they estimate how many cartons will be sold in a school year? Collecting such data and then grouping into tens and hundreds will help reinforce the value of grouping in situations when you need to count and compare quantities.</p>
<p>The particular way you bring numbers and the real world together in your class is up to you. But do not underestimate the value of connecting the real world to the classroom.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>