<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Using Existing Data Sources</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header id="chap17-head3_7">
            <h3 class="title">Using Existing Data Sources</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Data do not always have to be collected by surveys or observations; existing data abound in various places,
            such as the following print resources and data on the internet.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Print Resources</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Newspapers, almanacs, sports record books, maps, and various government publications are sources of data that
            may be used to answer children&#8217;s questions.</p>
        <p>Children&#8217;s literature is also an excellent and engaging resource. Children can tally words in a
            repeating verse like &#8220;Hickory, Dickory, Dock&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_535"
                >Niezgoda &amp; Moyer-Packenham, 2005</a>). Similarly, books like <em>Goodnight
                Moon</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_514" >Brown, 2005</a>) and <em>Green
                Eggs and Ham</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_541" >Seuss, 1960</a>) have
            many repeated words or phrases.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Web Resources</h4>
        </header>
        <p>The internet provides seemingly endless data that are often accessed by simply typing the related question
            into a search. Children may be interested in facts about another country as a result of a social studies
            unit or a country in the news. Olympic records in various events over the years or data related to
            environmental issues are other examples of topics around which children&#8217;s questions may be formulated.
            For these and hundreds of other questions, data can be found on the Web. Following are a few websites with a
            lot of interesting data.</p>
        <ul>
            <li><strong>NCTM Illuminations State Data Map</strong> is a source that displays state data on population,
                land area, political representation, gasoline use, and more.</li>
            <li><strong>The Official Olympic Records</strong> contains all Olympic records, providing information about
                the games and events, such as the medalists in every Olympic event since Athens 1896.</li>
            <li><strong>Internet Movie Database</strong> offers information about movies of all genres.</li>
            <li><strong>Google Earth</strong> allows you to take a virtual trip to explore cities and regions in any
                place in the world&#8212;even children&#8217;s hometown&#8212;where they can make interesting
                comparisons.</li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>