<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Foster Student Participation during Instruction</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-08">Foster Student Participation during Instruction </h3>
        </header>
        <p>Student participation is important to learning (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_164"
                >Tomaz &amp; David, 2015</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_167"
                >Wager, 2014</a>). Facilitating discourse that provides access to ELLs is
            critical. This includes (1) efforts to ensure that ELLs understand and have the background for engaging in
            the focus task(s), and (2) the need to put structures in place for student participation throughout the
            lesson. </p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Build Background Knowledge</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Similar to building on prior knowledge, building background also takes into consideration native language and
            culture as well as content (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_135" >Echevarria, Vogt,
                &amp; Short, 2012</a>). If possible, use a context and appropriate visuals to help children understand
            the task you want them to solve. This is a nonthreatening and engaging way to help children make connections
            between what they have learned and what they need to learn. </p>
        <p>Some aspects of English and mathematics are particularly challenging to ELLs (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_168" >Whiteford, 2009/2010</a>). For example, teen
            numbers sound a lot like their decade number&#8212;if you say <em>sixteen</em> and <em>sixty</em> out loud,
            you can hear how similar they are. Emphasizing the
            <em>n</em> sound helps ELLs hear the difference. For example, in a lesson on the teen numbers and place
            value, a teacher may have children partner and have one say the place-value words and the partner say the
            actual teen name (emphasizing the <em>n</em>):
        </p>
        <ul class="ul_none">
            <li>
                <p><strong>Partner A:</strong>&#8195;Ten and four</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong>Partner B:</strong>&#8195;Fourteen </p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p><span id="page75" class="pagebreak" title="75" />And the teacher can help children see the connection between
            <em>ten</em> and <em>teen</em>. </p>
        <p>Remember, too, that the U.S. measurement system may be unfamiliar to ELLs. When encountering content that may
            be unfamiliar or difficult for ELLs, devote additional time to build background so that children can engage
            in the mathematical tasks without also having to navigate language and background knowledge. </p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Use Comprehensible Input</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Comprehensible input means that the message you are communicating is understandable to children.
            Modifications include simplifying sentence structures and limiting the use of nonessential or confusing
            vocabulary (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_135" >Echevarria, Vogt, &amp; Short,
                2012</a>). Note that these modifications do not lower expectations for the lesson. Sometimes, teachers
            put many unnecessary words and phrases into questions, making them less clear to nonnative speakers. Compare
            the following two sets of teachers&#8217; instructions:</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="not-sidenote-1">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="not-sidenote-1">Not Modified:</h4>
            </header>
            <p>You have a worksheet in front of you that I just gave out. For every story problem, I want you to draw a
                picture and write an equation. You will be working with your partner, but each of you needs to record
                your answers on your own paper. If you get stuck on a problem, raise your hand. </p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="not-sidenote-2">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="not-sidenote-2">Modified:</h4>
            </header>
            <p>Please look at your paper. (Holds paper and points to the first story, which now has a picture next to
                it.) Let&#8217;s read together. (Everyone reads.) What is this story about? (Waits) What words tell us
                what the story is about (points to story itself)? (Notes context-related words on board, as well as
                words that indicate the action in the problem, so they can be used for reference.) Talk to your partner
                about how to find the answer. (Points to mouth and then to a pair of children as she says this.) Write
                your answers. (Makes a writing motion over paper.) </p>
        </aside>
        <p>Notice that four things have been done differently in the teacher talk: Sentences have been shortened,
            confusing words have been removed, attention is drawn to making meaning of the first example, and related
            gestures and motions have been added to the oral directives. Also notice the visuals that were added and the
            wait time the teacher gives. It is very important to provide extra time after posing a question or giving
            instructions to allow ELLs time to translate, make sense of the request, and then participate. </p>
        <p>Another way to provide comprehensible input is to use a variety of tools to help children visualize and
            understand what is verbalized. In the preceding example, the teacher models the instructions. Effective
            tools include manipulatives, real objects, pictures, visuals, multimedia, demonstrations, and literature.
            When introducing a lesson, include pictures, real objects, and diagrams. Children should be expected to
            include various representations of their understandings, such as drawing and writing to explain what they
            have done. Doing so helps to develop children&#8217;s understanding and language, and also gives the teacher
            a better idea of what they do and do not understand. </p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Engage Children in Discourse That Reflects Language Needs</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Discourse, or the use of classroom discussion, is essential for <em>all</em> learning (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_127" >Cirillo, Steele, Otten, Herbel-Eisenmann,
                McAneny, &amp; Riser, 2014</a>), but is particularly important for ELLs, who need to engage in
            productive language (writing and <span id="page76" class="pagebreak" title="76" />speaking), not just
            receptive language (listening and reading) (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_119"
                >Baker et al., 2014</a>). As noted in <em>Application of Common Core State
                Standards for English Learners</em>:</p>
        <blockquote>
            <p>ELLs are capable of participating in mathematical discussions as they learn English. Mathematics
                instruction for ELL children should draw on multiple resources and modes available in
                classrooms&#8212;such as objects, drawings, inscriptions, and gestures&#8212;as well as home languages
                and mathematical experiences outside of school. Mathematical instruction should address mathematical
                discourse and academic language (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_123" >CCSSO,
                    2011</a>, p. 2). </p>
        </blockquote>
        <p>There are strategies you can use in classroom discourse that help ELLs understand and participate in
            discussions. Practicing an explanation first with a partner can increase participation. Revoicing, using
            gestures and visuals, inviting sharing and justification, and asking other children to respond to
            ELLs&#8217; ideas are all ways to support participation (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_162"
                >Shein, 2012</a>; Turner, Dominguez, Maldonado, &amp; Empson, 2013).
            <em>Revoicing</em> is a research-based strategy that helps ELLs hear an idea more than once and hear it
            restated with the appropriate language applied to concepts. Children from other countries often solve or
            record problems differently, so inviting ELLs to share how they solved a problem can enhance the richness
            about a task. Importantly, ELLs cannot always explain their ideas fully, but rather than call on someone
            else; press for details. This pressing, or expansion move (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_128"
                >Choppin, 2014</a>), helps the teacher decide whether the idea makes sense
            <em>and</em> it helps other children make sense of the ideas (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_150"
                >Maldonado, Turner, Dominguez, &amp; Empson, 2009</a>). Note that these teacher
            moves also attribute ideas to children, thereby enhancing their mathematical authority (power), as discussed
            earlier in this chapter. </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch5_teach05">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="ch5_teach05">Teaching Tip</h4>
            </header>
            
            <p>Making the strategies of ELLs public and connecting their strategies to others supports the learning of
                all children while building the confidence of the ELLs.</p>
        </aside>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Plan Cooperative/Interdependent Groups to Support Language Development</h4>
        </header>
        <p>The use of cooperative groups is a valuable way to support ELLs (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_119"
                >Baker et al., 2014</a>). For ELLs, groups provide the opportunity to use
            language, but only if the groups are carefully formed in a way that considers children&#8217;s language
            skills. Placing an ELL with two English-speaking children may result in the ELL being left out. On the other
            hand, grouping all Spanish speakers together prevents these children from having the opportunity to hear and
            participate in mathematics in English. Consider placing a bilingual child in a group with a child who has
            limited English, or place children who have the same first language together with native speakers so that
            they can help one another understand and participate (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_137"
                >Garrison, 1997</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_146"
                >Khisty, 1997</a>). </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch5_sidenote-2">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="ch5_sidenote-2">Classroom Vignette</h4>
            </header>
            <p>The strategies just described are subtle moves in teaching. As you read the following vignette, look for
                strategies that the teacher applies to provide support for ELLs while keeping expectations high. </p>
            <p>Ms. Cruz is teaching a second-grade lesson that involves the standard units for measuring length (in
                feet). The lesson begins with nonstandard units, and then moves to measuring in feet. Ms. Cruz has four
                English language learners in her class including a child from Korea, who knows very little English, and
                three children from Mexico, who speak English <span id="page77" class="pagebreak" title="77" />to
                varying degrees; all are recent arrivals in the United States. These children are not familiar with U.S.
                measurements and may or may not have had other experiences in measuring. Ms. Cruz knows she needs to
                build background to ensure they can participate in the lesson.</p>
            <p>The lesson begins by asking children to count how many thumbs to get from one side of their desk to the
                other. Ms. Cruz motions using the length of her thumb as a unit on a child&#8217;s desk as she asks the
                question. She asks children to write their number of thumbs on a Post-it note and then stick the note on
                the board (using motions to illustrate instructions). After the answers are posted, she brings children
                up to the carpet. She states, &#8220;You measured your desk with your thumbs. What does measure
                mean?&#8221; After hearing responses and examples, she says, &#8220;Look at the answers when you
                measured. Can they all be right?&#8221; As children suggest that the thumb length might matter, she
                calls up pairs of children and has them compare their thumbs. She has the class state in full sentences
                whose is &#8220;longer&#8221; and &#8220;shorter&#8221; (e.g., Annie&#8217;s thumb is longer than
                Eun&#8217;s thumb). Ms. Cruz says that the big idea today is to figure out how we can measure so we all
                agree on how long something (like our desk) is.</p>
            <p>She then pulls out her book <em>How Big Is a Foot?</em> and begins to read, showing and pointing at
                pictures as she reads. When the bed turns out to be too small, she stops and asks, &#8220;What
                happened&#8212;any ideas?&#8221; She waits and then asks them to share with a partner before sharing
                with the group. One child explains that her foot is much smaller than Ms. Cruz&#8217;s foot and gets up
                to show the difference. </p>
            <p>Ms. Cruz finishes the book and asks, &#8220;How is the king&#8217;s problem with the bed like our thumb
                measures?&#8221; She then suggests that we all agree on one thumb length to use and to re-measure our
                desks to see if we agree on how many thumbs it is. She hands out thumb cut-outs and asks children to use
                this second-grader&#8217;s thumb to measure. She will see how they do in iterating the unit (not
                overlapping, end-to-end) and then bridge to measuring the carpet with a standard foot, being sure to
                talk about the meaning of the word <em>foot</em>. </p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch05-stop-03">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="ch05-stop-03">Stop and Reflect </h4>
            </header>
            <p>What specific strategies to support English language learners can you identify?</p>
        </aside>
        <p>There are a number of strategies in the vignette that provide support for ELLs: recognizing the potential
            language support for <em>measure</em> and later for <em>foot,</em> as well as lack of familiarity with
            measuring, which was supported by having an opportunity to measure prior to hearing the story (building
            background). Ms. Cruz has children saying in full sentences whose thumb is longer and shorter. She employs
            the think-pair-share technique, concrete models (the thumb cut-out), the story, and the children&#8217;s own
            measures to build meaning and scaffold to measuring with a foot. Most importantly, Ms. Cruz did not diminish
            the challenge of the task with these strategies. If she had altered the task, for example, not expecting the
            ELLs to explain why their measures turned out differently or what they predicted would happen in the story,
            they would not be learning what they needed to learn. Conversely, if she had simply asked children to begin
            measuring in feet, she might have kept her expectations high but failed to provide the support that would
            enable her children to succeed. </p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>