<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>17 Helping Children Use Data</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<p><span id="page399" class="pagebreak" title="399" /></p>
<header>
<h1 class="title"><span class="number">Chapter 17 </span>Helping Children Use Data</h1>
</header>
<section class="objectiveset">
<header><h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2></header>
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Statistics is a different field of study from mathematics; although mathematical concepts are used in statistics, statistics is primarily concerned with analysis of data and the resulting practical implications.</li>
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Doing statistics involves a four-step process: formulating questions, collecting data, analyzing data, and interpreting results.</li>
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Data are gathered and organized in order to answer questions about the population from which the data come. Data, always from a sample of the population, are used to make inferences about the population.</li>
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> Different types of graphs and other data representations provide different information about the data and, hence, the population from which the data were taken. The choice of graphical representation can affect how well the data are understood.</li>
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>5.</strong></span> Classification is fundamental to data analysis and is how young children begin their work in statistical analysis. A collection of objects with various attributes can be classified or sorted in different ways. A single object can belong to more than one class.</li>
<li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>6.</strong></span> The shape of the data can provide a &#8220;big picture&#8221; of the data, as opposed to thinking of the data as a collection of numbers. Graphs can provide a sense of the shape of the data, including how spread out or clustered the data are.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<p><span id="page400" class="pagebreak" title="400" />Graphs and statistics bombard the public in areas such as advertising, opinion polls, population trends, health risks, and progress of children in schools. We hear that the average amount of rainfall this summer is more than it was last summer or that the average American household consists of 2.54 people. In April 2016 the median price of a new home was $321,100, and the mean was $379,800. Knowing these statistics should raise an array of questions: How were these data gathered? What was the purpose?
What does it mean to have an average of 2.54 people? Why are the median and the mean for home sales so different, and which one makes more sense for communicating about the prices of homes?</p>
<p>Statistical literacy is critical to understanding the world around us, essential for engaged citizenship, and vital for developing the ability to question information presented in the media (<a href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_539" class="noteref_biblioref">Shaughnessy, 2007</a>). Misuse of statistics occurs even in trustworthy sources such as newspapers, where graphs are often designed to exaggerate a finding. Therefore, it is crucial to prepare statistically literate students who understand the basic concepts of statistics and who are able to ascertain the trustworthiness of what they see or read in newspapers, magazines, and on internet sites. Children at the preK&#8211;2 level can begin developing this understanding. The <em>Common Core State Standards for Mathematics</em> <a href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" class="noteref_biblioref">(CCSSO, 2010)</a> and the <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> (<a href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_534" class="noteref_biblioref">National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, 2006</a>) indicate that preK&#8211;K children should learn how data can be categorized while first and second graders should collect, organize, represent, and interpret data using picture and bar graphs. Second graders extend their work to generating and representing measurement data on line plots. The focus of learning at these and every grade level should be on ways to use, present, and interpret data in the context of real questions.</p>
</section>
</body>

</html>