<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Teaching Operations through Contextual Problems</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Teaching Operations through Contextual Problems</h2>
</header>
<p>Contextual problems are the primary teaching tool to use to help children construct a rich understanding of the operations. These contexts are what elicit problem-solving strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_296" >Schwartz, 2013</a>) and help children make sense of the operations. What might a good lesson that is built around contextual problems look like? The answer comes more easily if you think about children not just solving the problems but also using words, pictures, and numbers to explain how they reasoned about solving the problem and why they think they are correct. Children should solve problems using whatever physical materials or drawings they feel will help them. They explain either verbally or in writing what they did and why it makes sense within the context of the situation&#8212;with enough detail (e.g., a written explanation, a drawing they used to help them solve the problem, modeling with manipulatives) to allow someone else to track on their reasoning and understand their solution. With the emphasis on children explaining their ideas and reasoning, lessons should focus on two or three problems and the related in-depth discussions rather than a lot of problems with little elaboration.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-smp-01">
<header><h2 class="title">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>3 Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.</strong></p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>