<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>What Not to Do</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_24">What Not to Do</h3>
</header>
<p>The following list describes strategies that may have been designed with good intentions but hinder children&#8217;s recall of basic facts.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t use timed tests.</em> As we have mentioned, little insight is gained from timed tests and they can negatively affect children by creating unneeded anxiety. Turn those timers off!</p></li>
<li><p><span id="page205" class="pagebreak" title="205"/><em>Don&#8217;t use public comparisons of mastery.</em> You may have experienced as a student or even used as a teacher a bulletin board display that identifies which children are on which step of a staircase to mastering their basic facts. Imagine how the child who is on step 3 feels when most others are on step 6. Similarly, avoid public competition with f lash cards. It is great to celebrate children&#8217;s successes, but avoid comparisons between children to prevent the development of anxiety as they learn mathematics.
</p></li>
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t proceed through the facts in order from 0 to 9.</em> Begin work on the foundational facts first. Be sure children really know these facts before moving on. Then move on to the tougher facts.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t work on all the facts all at once in a given activity or game.</em> Because some children will learn some facts more quickly than other children, you will need to differentiate. Using observations and diagnostic interviews, help children identify which facts they need more experience with and have them focus on that target set of facts during an activity or game.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t expect quick recall too soon.</em> Quick recall or mastery can be attained only after significant time has been spent on reasoning strategies.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t use facts as a barrier to good mathematics.</em> Mathematics is not solely about computation. Mathematics is about problem solving, reasoning, using patterns, and making sense of things. There is no reason that a child who has not yet mastered all basic facts should be excluded from any mathematical experiences. When working on more complex tasks, allow calculators so that children don&#8217;t get bogged down on computation.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Don&#8217;t use fact mastery as a prerequisite for calculator use.</em> Insisting that children master the basic facts before allowing them to use a calculator denies them important learning opportunities. Calculator use should be based on the instructional goals of the day. For example, if the learning goal for a lesson is for children to explore even and odd numbers, then they might build different array representations of numbers, recording the amounts of different parts while they look for patterns. Using a calculator can quicken computation in this lesson and keep the focus on reasoning about even and odd numbers.</p></li> 
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>