<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Flexible Grouping</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Flexible Grouping</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Allowing children to collaborate on tasks supports and challenges their thinking and increases their
            opportunities to communicate about mathematics and build understanding. In addition, many children feel that
            working in groups improves their confidence, engagement, and understanding (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_108" >Nebesniak &amp; Heaton, 2010</a>). Even
            children who prefer to work alone need to learn the life skill of collaboration and should be provided
            opportunities to work with others.</p>
        <p>Determining how to place children in groups is an important decision. Avoid grouping by ability. This kind of
            grouping, although well-intentioned, perpetuates low levels of learning and actually increases the gap
            between more and less dependent children. <strong>Watch this video ( <a
                        href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R4iAwShVIBE"
                        class="ulink">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R4iAwShVIBE</a>)</strong> that shares
            some of the negative effects of ability grouping. Instead, consider using <em>flexible grouping,</em> in
            which the size and makeup of small groups vary in a purposeful and strategic manner (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_106" >Murray &amp; Jorgensen, 2007</a>). When
            coupled with the use of differentiation strategies, flexible grouping gives all children the chance to work
            successfully in groups.</p>
        <p>Flexible groups can vary based on children&#8217;s readiness, interests, language proficiency, and learning
            profiles, as well as the nature of the tasks. For example, sometimes children can work with a partner
            because the nature of the task best suits two people working together. At other times, flexible groups might
            be created with four children because their assigned task has enough components or roles to warrant a larger
            team. Note that although it can be tempting to occasionally place struggling learners with more capable
            children, consistently pairing struggling learners with more capable children is not helpful for either
            group. The idea behind flexible grouping is that groups can and do easily change in response to all
            children&#8217;s readiness, interests, and learning profiles and the nature of the task they will be doing.
        </p>
        <p>Regardless of how you group your children, the first key to successful grouping is individual accountability.
            While the group is working together on a product, individuals must be able to explain the content, the
            process, and the product. Second, and equally important, is building a sense of shared responsibility within
            a group. At the start of the year, it is important to engage children in <a
                    href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Team-Building_Activities_Grades_Pre-K&#8211;2.pdf"
                    class="ulink">Team-Building Activities</a> and to set expectations that all group members
            will participate in the assigned group task(s) and that all group members will be responsible for ensuring
            that the entire group understands the concept.</p>
        <p>Reinforcing individual accountability and shared responsibility may create a shift in your role as the
            teacher. When a member of a small group asks you a question, pose the question to the whole group to find
            out what the other members think. Children will soon learn that they must use teammates as their first
            resource and seek teacher help only when the whole group needs help. Also, when you are observing groups,
            rather than ask Amanda what she is doing, ask Kyle to explain what Amanda is doing. Having all children
            participate in the oral <span id="page63" class="pagebreak" title="63" />report to the whole class also
            builds individual accountability. Letting children know that you may call on any member to explain what the
            group did is a good way to ensure that all group members understand what they did. Additionally, having
            children individually write and record their strategies and solutions is important. Using these techniques
            will increase the effectiveness of grouping, which in turn will help children learn mathematical concepts
            more successfully.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch04-stop-04">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch04-stop-04">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Why is teaching mathematics through problem solving (i.e., a problem-based approach) a good way to
                differentiate instruction and reach all children in a classroom?</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>