<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Pre&#8211;Place-Value Understandings</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Pre&#8211;Place-Value Understandings</h2>
</header>
<p>Children know a lot about numbers with two digits (10 to 99) as early as kindergarten. After all, kindergartners learn to count to 100 and count out sets of items with as many as 20 or more objects (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_348" >CCSSO, 2010</a>). They count children in the room, turn to specific page numbers in their books, and so on. However, initially their understanding is quite different from yours. It is based on a count-by-ones approach to determine quantity and so the number 18 to them means 18 ones. They are not yet able to separate the quantity into place-value groups. For example, after counting 18 teddy bears, a young child might tell you that the 1 in the number stands for 1 teddy bear and the 8 stands for 8 teddy bears. Such children have not had enough experiences to move beyond this initial understanding of two-digit numbers.</p>
<p>Researchers have identified three levels of understanding about the concept of &#8220;ten&#8221; through which children progress (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_359" >Wright, Martland, Stafford, &amp; Stanger, 2008</a>).</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p><em>Level 1:</em> Initial Concept of Ten. Children understand ten not as a unit but only as ten ones. When solving addition or subtraction problems involving tens, they count only by ones.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Level 2:</em> Intermediate Concept of Ten. Children see ten as a unit, as one thing that consists of ten ones, but they must rely on physical or mental models to help them work with units of ten.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Level 3:</em> Facile Concept of Ten. Children are able to easily work with units of ten without the use of physical or mental base-ten models.</p></li>
</ul>
<p><span id="page208" class="pagebreak" title="208"/>Consider the suggestions in the following Formative Assessment Note as ways to assess where children are in this trajectory.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="formative01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="formative01">Formative Assessment Note</h2>
</header>

<p>In a diagnostic interview, ask first- or second-graders to count out 35 tiles. Watch closely to determine whether they count out the tiles one at a time and push them aside without any type of grouping or if they group them into tens. Have the children write the number that tells how many tiles they just counted. Some may write &#8220;53&#8221; instead of &#8220;35,&#8221; a simple reversal. You will likely find that early on children count the tiles one by one and are not yet thinking of ten as a unit (level 1), and are therefore in a pre&#8211;place-value stage.</p>
<p>The children just described know that there are 35 tiles &#8220;because I counted them.&#8221; Writing the number and saying the number are usually done correctly, but their understanding of 35 derives from and is connected to the count-by-ones approach. Without your help, children do not easily or quickly develop a meaningful use of groups of ten to represent quantities.</p>
<p>Even if children can tell you that in the numeral 35 the 3 &#8220;is in the tens place&#8221; or that there are &#8220;5 ones,&#8221; they might just know the name of the positions without understanding that the &#8220;tens place&#8221; represents how many groups of ten. Similarly, if children use base-ten blocks, they may name a rod of ten as a &#8220;ten&#8221; and a small cube as a &#8220;one&#8221; but may not be able to tell how many ones are required to make a ten. In other words, children may attach words to both materials and groups without realizing what the materials or symbols represent.</p>
<p>Children may know that 35 is &#8220;a lot&#8221; and that it&#8217;s more than 27 (because you count past 27 to get to 35). But initially they think of the &#8220;35&#8221; as a single numeral. At this stage, they do not know that the 3 represents three groups of ten things and the 5 represents five single things (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_350" >Fuson, 2006</a>). Fuson and her colleagues refer to children&#8217;s pre&#8211;place-value understanding of number as <em>unitary</em>. That is, there are no groupings of ten, even though a two-digit number is associated with the quantity. They initially rely on unitary counts to understand quantities.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>