<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Children&#8217;s Self-Assessment and Reflection</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Children&#8217;s Self-Assessment and Reflection</h2>
        </header>
        <p><a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_99" >Wiliam (2015)</a> stresses that a key strategy
            in effectively using formative assessment is the activation of children as &#8220;owners of their own
            learning&#8221; (p. 169). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_95" >Stiggins (2009)</a>
            suggests that children should be informed partners in understanding their progress in learning and how to
            enhance their growth in understanding concepts. They should use their own assessment results to move forward
            as learners as they see that &#8220;success is always within reach&#8221; (p. 420). Children&#8217;s
            self-assessments should not be your only measure of children&#8217;s learning or dispositions, but rather a
            record of how <em>children perceive</em> their strengths and weaknesses as they begin to take responsibility
            for their learning.</p>
        <p>You can gather children&#8217;s self-assessment data in several ways, including preassessments that catch
            areas of confusion or misconceptions prior to formally assessing children on particular <span id="page47"
                class="pagebreak" title="47" />content or by using sticky notes when concluding the lesson.
            <strong>Watch this video</strong> (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ejQcTTwEtA) shown with older children
            that is applicable to any grade to see a &#8220;stoplight&#8221; approach. Here the teacher uses green,
            yellow, and red plates to gather children&#8217;s responses to see how they evaluate where they are.</p>
        <p>As you plan for children&#8217;s self-assessment, consider what you need to know to help you find better
            instructional strategies and revised learning targets. Convey to your children why you are having them do
            this activity&#8212;they need to grasp that they must play a role in their mastery of mathematics rather
            than just focus on completing a task.</p>
        <p>Although in general, it takes additional time to infuse children&#8217;s self-assessments and formative
            assessment into the daily schedule, allowing children to take part in the assessment process is motivating
            and encourages them to monitor and adapt their approaches to learning. Remember, start the process of
            incorporating these assessment ideas in this chapter over time building strategy by strategy (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_88" >Petit &amp; Bouck, 2015</a>) and growing your
            ability to effectively assess children.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>