<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Culturally Responsive Mathematics Instruction</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Culturally Responsive Mathematics Instruction </h2>
</header>
<p>Culturally responsive mathematics instruction includes attention to mathematical thinking, language, and culture. And, it applies to all children, including children from different ethnic groups, different socioeconomic levels, and so on. It includes consideration <span id="page67" class="pagebreak" title="67" />for content, relationships, cultural knowledge, flexibility in approaches, use of accessible learning contexts (i.e., contexts familiar or interesting to children), a responsive learning community, and working in cross-cultural partnerships (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_116" >Aguirre &amp; del Rosario Zavala, 2013</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_118" >Averill, Anderson, Easton, Te Maro, Smith, &amp; Hynds, 2009</a>). Culturally responsive mathematics instruction can improve the performance of all children, as well as narrow the academic performance gap (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_120" >Boaler, 2008</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_147" >Kisker, Lipka, Adams, Rickard, Andrew&#x02010;Ihrke, Yanez, &amp; Millard, 2012</a>). <a class="xref" href="chapter0005_02.xhtml#Tab_5-1">Table 5.1</a> lists four <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Aspects_of_Culturally_Responsive_Mathematics_Instruction.pdf" class="ulink">Aspects of culturally responsive mathematics instruction</a>, along with questions to guide planning, teaching, and assessing.</p>
<figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_5-1">
<header><h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">5.1</span> Aspects of culturally responsive mathematics instruction.</h2></header></figure>
<table><thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col"><strong>Aspect of Culturally Responsive Instruction</strong></th>
<th scope="col"><strong>Teacher Reflection Questions</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Communicate high expectations.</td>
<td><ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>Does teaching focus on understanding big ideas in mathematics?</p></li>
<li><p>Are children expected to engage in problem solving and generate their own approaches to problems?</p></li>
<li><p>Are connections made among mathematical representations?</p></li>
<li><p>Are children justifying their strategies and answers, and are they presenting their work?</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Make content relevant.</td>
<td><ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>In what ways is the content related to familiar aspects of children&#8217;s lives?</p></li>
<li><p>In what ways is prior knowledge elicited/reviewed so that all children can participate in the lesson?</p></li>
<li><p>To what extent are children asked to make connections between school mathematics and mathematics in their own lives?</p></li>
<li><p>How are child interests (events, issues, literature, or pop culture) used to build interest and mathematical meaning?</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Attend to children&#8217;s mathematical identities.</td>
<td><ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>In what ways are children invited to include their own experiences within a lesson?</p></li>
<li><p>Are story problems generated from children and teachers? Do stories reflect the real experiences of children?</p></li>
<li><p>Are individual's approaches presented and showcased so that each child sees his or her ideas as important to the teacher and peers?</p></li>
<li><p>Are alternative algorithms shared as a point of excitement and pride (as appropriate)?</p></li>
<li><p>Are multiple modes used to demonstrate knowledge (e.g., visuals, explanations, models) valued?</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ensure shared power.</td>
<td><ul class="ul_none">
<li><p>Are children (rather than just the teacher) justifying the correctness of solutions?</p></li>
<li><p>Are children invited (expected) to engage in whole-class discussions in which they share ideas and respond to one another&#8217;s ideas?</p></li>
<li><p>In what ways are roles assigned so that every child feels that he or she is contributing to and learning from other members of the class?</p></li>
<li><p>Are children given a choice in how they solve a problem? In how they demonstrate knowledge of the concept?</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<header>				
<h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-03">Communicate High Expectations </h3>
</header>
<p>Too often, our first attempt to help children, in particular ELLs, is to simplify the mathematics and/or remove the language from the lesson. Simplifying or removing language can take away opportunities to learn. Culturally responsive instruction stays focused on the big ideas of mathematics (i.e., is based on standards such as the <em>Common Core State Standards</em>) and helps children engage in and stay focused on those big ideas. In addition to focusing on the big ideas, using tasks worthy of groupwork, emphasizing multiple representations, incorporating student justifications and presentations are features of classrooms that support equitable opportunities to learn mathematics (Cabana, Shreve, &amp; Woodbury, 2014; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_133" >Dunleavy, 2015</a>). For example, a critical area in grades 1 and 2 is addition, which includes moving between stories and equations. The stories can be carefully selected to use contexts <span id="page68" class="pagebreak" title="68" />that are familiar to ELLs and that lend themselves to using visuals (such as cars). Rather than having a new context for every story, the stories can focus on the same theme (and connect to the English that children are learning in their ESL instruction, if possible). This provides a context for the mathematics without adding unnecessary linguistic demands. The teacher can incorporate opportunities for children to share their approaches to adding and illustrate (with the visuals) how they thought about it. In this way, ELLs are able to learn the important content and engage in classroom discourse.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch5_teach02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch5_teach02">Teaching Tip</h2>
</header>

<p>When looking at a textbook lesson, consider rearranging and prioritizing those tasks that (1) make connections between children&#8217;s prior knowledge and experiences, (2) lend to children using their own strategies, and (3) encourage children to explain their thinking (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_132" >Drake et al., 2015</a>).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>