<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Children&#8217;s Strategies for Solving Multiplication and Division Problems</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap9-head3_14">Children&#8217;s Strategies for Solving Multiplication and Division
                Problems</h3>
        </header>
        <p>As with addition and subtraction situations, children progress through different levels of strategies as they
            solve multiplication and division situations. Initially, they solve these kinds of problems by directly
            modeling the relationships and action described in the problems. In time children move from directly
            modeling to using counting strategies and then to using derived facts.</p>
        <p>Let&#8217;s consider how children who are using different levels of strategies might solve the following
            situation that involves repeated addition or multiplication:</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_15">
            <p>There are 3 golf balls in a box. How many balls are in 6 boxes?</p>
        </aside>
        <p><span id="page172" class="pagebreak" title="172" />A child who is directly modeling would make 6 groups with
            3 counters in each group and would count all the counters to find the answer. A child who has moved to using
            counting strategies might hold up a finger one at a time as she counts by three 6 times: 3, 6, 9, 12, 15,
            18. Another child who is not as proficient at skip counting by threes may start skip counting and then
            revert to counting by ones: 3, 6, 9, 12, . . . 13, 14, 15, . . . 16, 17, 18. This child is still using a
            counting strategy. When a child is using derived facts, she uses known facts to find unknown facts. For this
            problem, a child might reason that because <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                altimg="../images/render106.png" alttext="3 cross times 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350"
                class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>3</mn>
                    <mo>&#215;</mo>
                    <mn>5</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math> equals 15, 3 more is 18.</p>
        <p>For partition division, let&#8217;s look at the following situation:</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_16">
            <p>Arielle has 12 lollipops. She wants to share them equally among 4 of her friends. How many will each
                friend get?</p>
        </aside>
        <p>When direct modeling, a child will count out 12 counters and then separate them into 4 groups, probably
            placing one counter in each of the 4 groups until all 12 counters are distributed. He would then count the
            counters in one of the groups to find the answer (how many will each friend get). You can watch a video of
            <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0197_iPad" class="ulink">Rosa</a>, a
            first grader, who uses a drawing to directly model a fair sharing or partition division problem. For a child
            who is using a counting strategy to solve this kind of division problem, the child will typically use trial
            and error to determine how many might be in each group because she is trying to mimic the action in the
            problem. So the child might first skip-count by twos, keeping track of the number of twos on her fingers: 2,
            4, 6, 8. Because 4 twos is not enough, she tries another number, say, 3: 3, 6, 9, 12. When she reaches 12
            with 4 fingers raised, she realizes each friend would get 3 lollipops. A child who uses derived facts may
            know <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render107.png"
                alttext="5 cross times 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>5</mn>
                    <mo>&#215;</mo>
                    <mn>3</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math> is 5 groups of 3 or 15, so 4 groups of 3 would be three less or 12.
        </p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-smp-18">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>1 Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <p>For measurement division, consider this situation:</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_17">
            <p>Parker has 24 cupcakes. He wants to store 6 cupcakes in each box. How many boxes will he need?</p>
        </aside>
        <p>A child who is directly modeling will count out 24 counters and then repeatedly measure out groups of 6
            counters until no more groups of 6 are possible. He will then count the number of groups to find the answer.
            For a child who is using a counting strategy, he will count by sixes, keeping track of each count, say, by
            extending a finger: 6, 12, 18, 24. Looking at 4 extended fingers, he knows Parker will need 4 boxes. Here is
            a video of <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0129_iPad"
                    class="ulink">Connor</a>, a first grader, who attempts to use skip counting by fours to
            solve a measurement division problem. If a child is using derived facts, he may think <math display="inline"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render108.png" alttext="5 cross times 6"
                altimg-height="100" altimg-width="350" class="informalequation">
                <mrow>
                    <mn>5</mn>
                    <mo>&#215;</mo>
                    <mn>6</mn>
                </mrow>
            </math> equals 30, but one less 6 would be 24&#8212;so, 4 boxes.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>