<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Implementing Interventions</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Implementing Interventions</h2>
</header>
<p>NCTM has shared a set of effective, research-based strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_195" >NCTM, 2007b</a>) for teaching the subset of children for whom the initial core instruction was not effective (the children needing Tier 2 or Tier 3 interventions). These strategies include systematic and explicit instruction, think-alouds, concrete and visual representations of problems, peer-assisted learning activities, and formative assessment data provided to children and teachers. These interventions, proven to be effective for children with disabilities, may represent principles different from those used at Tier 1.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch06-head-02">Explicit Strategy Instruction</h3>
</header>
<p>Explicit instruction is characterized by highly structured, teacher-led instruction on a specific strategy. When engaging in this explicit instruction you do not merely model the strategy and have children practice it, instead you try to illuminate the decision-making along the way&#8212;a process that may be troublesome for these particular learners without support. In this instructional strategy, after you assess the children so that you know what to target, you use a tightly organized sequence from modeling the strategy to prompting children through the model, to practice. Your instruction uses these teacher-led explanations of concepts and strategies, including the critical connection building and meaning making that help learners relate new knowledge with concepts they know. Let&#8217;s look at a classroom teacher using explicit instruction:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><em>As you enter Mr. Logan&#8217;s classroom, you see a small group of young children seated at a table listening to the teacher&#8217;s detailed explanation and watching his demonstration of addition concepts. The children are using manipulatives, as suggested by Mr. Logan, and moving through carefully selected tasks. He tells the students to take out three cubes and asks them to take out five more cubes. Mr. Logan asks the children, &#8220;Now how many do you have?&#8221; He asks, &#8220;Is <strong>add</strong> a word you know?&#8221; Then, to make sure they don&#8217;t overcount, he asks them to talk about their reasoning process by asking the question, &#8220;What are some things you need to keep in mind as you put the two groups together?&#8221; Mr. Logan writes their responses on the adjacent board along with</em> <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math84.png" alttext="3 plus 5 equals 8" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>3</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>8</mn></math> <em>to connect the ideas that they share with the symbolic representation. During the lesson Mr. Logan frequently stops the group, interjects points of clarification, and directly highlights critical components of the task. For example, he asks, &#8220;Can you count from three by adding the five cubes on?&#8221; and &#8220;Would it be the same if you started with the five cubes and counted on the three cubes? Why?&#8221; The children take turns answering these questions aloud. Vocabulary words, such as <strong>add</strong>, <strong>combine,</strong> and <strong>equals</strong>, are written on the &#8220;math word wall&#8221; nearby and the definitions of these terms are reviewed and reinforced throughout the lesson. At the completion of the lesson, children are given several similar examples of the kind of combination discussed in the lesson as independent practice.</em></p>
</blockquote>
<p>A number of aspects of explicit instruction can be seen in Mr. Logan&#8217;s approach to teaching addition concepts. He employs a teacher-directed teaching format, carefully describes the use of manipulatives, and incorporates a model-prompt-practice sequence. This sequence starts with verbal instructions and demonstrations with concrete models, followed by prompting, questioning, and then independent practice. The children are deriving mathematical knowledge from Mr. Logan&#8217;s oral, written, and visual clues.
</p>
<p><span id="page85" class="pagebreak" title="85"/>
As children with disabilities solve problems, explicit strategy instruction can help guide them in carrying out tasks. First ask them to read and restate the problem, draw a picture or make a model with materials, develop a plan by linking this problem to previous problems, write the problem in a mathematical sentence, break the problem into smaller pieces, carry out operations, and check answers using a calculator, hundreds chart or other appropriate tools. These self-instructive prompts, or self-questions, structure the entire learning process from beginning to end. Unlike more inquiry-based instruction, the teacher models these steps and explains components using terminology that is easily understood by children who struggle&#8212;children who did not discover them independently through initial Tier 1 or 2 activities. Yet, consistent with what we know about how all children learn, children are still doing problem solving (not just skill development).</p>
<p>Concrete models can support explicit strategy instruction. For example, a teacher demonstrating the properties of two-dimensional shapes, might say, &#8220;Watch me. Now make a rectangle with these four straws that looks just like mine.&#8221; In contrast, a teacher with a more inquiry-oriented approach might say, &#8220;Using these different sized pieces of straws, how can you show me a rectangle?&#8221; Although initially more structured, the use of concrete models in this fashion will provide children with disabilities with greater access to abstract concepts.</p>
<p>There are a number of possible advantages to using explicit strategy instruction for children with disabilities. This approach helps you make more explicit for these children the covert thinking strategies that others use in mathematical problem solving. Although children with disabilities hear other children&#8217;s thinking strategies in the <em>After</em> phase of each lesson, they frequently cannot keep up with the rapid pace of the sharing. Without extra time to reprocess the conversation, children with disabilities may not have access to these strategies. More explicit approaches are also less dependent on the child&#8217;s ability to draw ideas from past experience or to operate in a self-directed manner.</p>
<p>There are some aspects of explicit strategy instruction that have distinct disadvantages for children with special needs, particularly the times children must rely on memory&#8212;often one of their weakest skills. There is also the concern that highly teacher-controlled approaches promote prolonged student dependency on teacher assistance. This is of particular concern for children with disabilities because many are described as passive learners.</p>
<p>Children learn what they have the opportunity to practice. Children who are never given opportunities to engage in self-directed learning (based on the assumption that this is not an area of strength) will be deprived of the opportunity to develop skills in this area. In fact, the best explicit instruction is scaffolded, meaning it moves from a highly structured, single-strategy approach to multiple models, including examples, and nonexamples. It also includes immediate error correction followed by the fading of prompts to help children move to independence. To be effective, explicit instruction must include making mathematical relationships explicit (so that children, rather than only learning how to do that day&#8217;s mathematics, make connections to other mathematical ideas). Because making connections is a major component in how children learn, it must be central to learning strategies for children with disabilities.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>