<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Children&#8217;s Conceptions of Addition and Subtraction</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Children&#8217;s Conceptions of Addition and Subtraction</h2>
        </header>
        <p>From an adult&#8217;s perspective the ideas of addition and subtraction seem quite simple. For example, think
            about how you would solve the following problem.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_01">
            <p>Aidan had 7 beads. After she bought some more beads, she had 15 beads. How many beads did Aidan buy?</p>
        </aside>
        <p><span id="page148" class="pagebreak" title="148" />Most adults and older students solve this problem by
            subtracting  <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math148.png" alttext="15 minus 7" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>15</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>7</mn></math>. But young children do not initially view this as a subtraction situation because
            <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math148.png" alttext="15 minus 7" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>15</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>7</mn></math> is the &#8220;opposite&#8221; operation or action implied in the problem. Instead, they will
            mimic the implied action in the problem and solve it by adding on or counting up from 7 until they reach 15.
            Their approach may seem less efficient than simply subtracting, but it makes sense to young children because
            it mirrors the situation in the problem. Watch <a
                    href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0120_iPad" class="ulink">Arriel</a> solve a
            similar problem by adding on or counting up. Eventually, after having much experience making sense of story
            problems, working with different combinations of numbers, and examining the results of using addition and
            subtraction in these situations (possibly at their teacher&#8217;s request), they will begin to generalize
            that they get the same result by subtracting and will join older students and adults in using subtraction
            for these kinds of problems. This example illustrates how children&#8217;s initial conceptions are different
            from those of adults&#8212;even with something we consider so basic as addition and subtraction.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-smp-02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>1 Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <p>Children&#8217;s conceptions are the best foundation on which to build future learning. Therefore, the
            perspective on addition and subtraction taken in this chapter is based on what has been learned from
            numerous research studies about children&#8217;s understanding of operations (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_283" >Gutstein &amp; Romberg, 1995</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_269" >Carpenter, Fennema, Franke, Levi, &amp;
                Empson, 2014</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_288" >NRC, 2009</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_300" >Verschaffel, Greer, &amp; De Corte,
                2007</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_244" >Clements &amp; Sarama, 2014</a>). Through this research, we are aware that children can solve
            contextual or story problems involving age-appropriate numbers by reasoning through the relationships in the
            problems. We also know that different problems have different structures that can affect the difficulty
            level of the problem. When teachers are familiar with these structures, they are better able to plan and
            differentiate instruction.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>