<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Attend to Children&#8217;s Mathematical Identities</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-05">Attend to Children&#8217;s Mathematical Identities </h3>
        </header>
        <p>A focus on children&#8217;s mathematical identities overlaps with the previous category, but it merits its
            own discussion. A child&#8217;s <em>mathematical identity</em> is their disposition toward mathematics and
            sense of competence as learner and a contributor in mathematics classrooms (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_130" >Cobb, Gresalfi, &amp; Hodge, 2009</a>).
            Whether it is intentional or not, all teaching is identity work, as children are constantly adapting and
            redefining themselves based on their experiences in mathematics classrooms (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_140" >Guti&#233;rrez, 2015</a>). Our goal is to
            develop productive dispositions in all children (i.e., the tendency to believe that steady effort in math
            learning pays off and to see oneself as an effective learner and doer of mathematics [<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_156" >NRC, 2001</a>]). There are a number of ways
            that teachers can shape children&#8217;s mathematical identities. One way to do this is &#8220;assigning
            competence&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_121" >Boaler &amp; Staples,
                2014</a>, p. 27). As the teacher listens during small group work, they hear different contributions from
            children. During later discussion, the teacher can attribute ideas to individuals, saying something like,
            &#8220;That relates to the strategy Nicolas used.&#8221; This strategy recognizes Nicolas as capable in
            mathematics, influencing how he perceives himself, as well as how other classmates might perceive him. </p>
        <p>Additionally, telling stories about their own lives, or asking children to tell stories, makes mathematics
            relevant to children and can raise student achievement (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_165"
                >Turner, Celed&#243;n-Pattichis, Marshall, &amp; Tennison, 2009</a>). <a
                class="xref" href="chapter0005_04.xhtml#Tab_5-2">Table 5.2</a> provides ideas for making mathematics
            relevant to a child&#8217;s home and community. </p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_5-2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">5.2</span> Where to find
                    mathematics in children&#8217;s homes and community.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Where to Look</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>What You Might Ask Children to Record and Share (and Mathematics That Can Be
                            Explored)</strong></th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>Grocery store or market advertisements</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Cost of an item of which they bought more than one (repeated addition or
                                    multiplication)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Cost of an item that came with a quantity (e.g., dozen eggs) (number combinations,
                                    division)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Better buy of same item, different brands (subtraction)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Shapes of different containers (geometry)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Different types/brands of different foods they select, such as what kind of bread
                                    (data)</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Photographs</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>A person they admire (data)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>A favorite scene (geometry, measurement)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>2-D and 3-D shapes in their home or neighborhood (geometry, measurement)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Flowers (counting, skip counting, or multiplication with number of petals)</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Artifact (game or measuring device) from their culture or that is a favorite</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Mathematics used in the game (counting, operations, other)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Measuring devices (nonstandard and standard measures) for length and volume</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <p><span id="page70" class="pagebreak" title="70" />Read the following teacher&#8217;s story to see how she
            incorporated family history and culture into her class by reading <em>The Hundred Penny Box</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_149" >Mathis, 1986</a>). In Mathis&#8217;s story,
            a 100-year-old woman remembers an important event in every year of her life as she turns over each of her
            100 pennies. Each penny is more than a coin; it is a &#8220;memory trigger&#8221; for her life. </p>
        <blockquote>
            <p>Taking a cue from the book, I asked all the children to collect one penny from each year they were alive,
                starting from the year of their birth and not missing a year. Children were encouraged to bring in
                additional pennies their classmates might need. Then, the children consulted with family members to
                create a penny time line of important events in their lives. Using information gathered at home, they
                started with the year they were born, listing their birthday and then recording first steps, vacations,
                pets, births of siblings, and so on. </p>
        </blockquote>
        <p>Children in grades K&#8211;2 can increase their understanding of numbers and the number line by determining
            when between 0 (i.e., the day they were born) and their current age a memorable event happened. The number
            line is an important model to use in counting, adding, and subtracting, and this context helps children
            better understand the number line, which is abstract and more challenging than using set models (e.g.,
            counters). For example, you can ask children &#8220;How many years between [these two events]?&#8221; and
            &#8220;How many years ago was [this event]?&#8221; These questions focus on subtraction as difference,
            rather than as take-away, an important and underemphasized subtraction situation. </p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>