<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Introducing Computational Estimation</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Introducing Computational Estimation</h2>
        </header>
        <p><span id="page262" class="pagebreak" title="262" />As mentioned earlier, when invented strategies are the
            norm for computation, there is no need to talk about mental computation and estimation as separate topics
            because they are an integral part of invented strategies. As children become more and more proficient with
            these flexible methods, they find they are able to use them mentally without having to write down even
            intermediate steps.</p>
        <p>Even so, computational estimation is a higher level thinking skill that involves many decisions that children
            need opportunities to think about and discuss. Whenever we are faced with a computation in real life, we
            have a variety of choices to make concerning how we will find a reasonable answer. A first decision is:
            &#8220;Do we need an exact answer, or will an approximation be okay?&#8221; If an approximation is deemed
            appropriate, we need to decide the level of precision called for and which estimation strategy is most
            suitable for that purpose. We can choose to use an invented strategy, a standard algorithm, or even a
            calculator. How close an estimate must be to the actual computation is a matter of context, as was the
            original decision to use an estimate. Even if we do need an exact answer, children can &#8220;detect
            possible errors by strategically using estimation and other mathematical knowledge,&#8221; as highlighted in
            the <em>Common Core State Standard</em> Mathematical Practice 5 (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>, p. 7). Good estimators tend to employ a variety of
            computational strategies they have developed over time.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch12-smp-08">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch12-smp-08">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>6 Attend to precision.</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <header>
            <h3 id="chap12-head3_13" class="title">Understanding Computational Estimation</h3>
        </header>
        <p>The goal of computational estimation is to be able to flexibly and quickly produce a
            reasonable estimate that is a suitable approximation for an exact number given the particular context. In
            the K&#8211;8 mathematics curriculum, estimation refers to three quite different ideas:</p>
        <ul class="ul_none">
            <li>
                <p><em>Measurement estimation</em>: Determining an approximate measure without making an exact
                    measurement. For example, we can estimate the length of a room or the weight of a watermelon.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Quantity estimation</em>: Approximating the number of items in a collection. For example, we
                    might estimate the number of children in the auditorium or jelly beans in the &#8220;estimation
                    jar.&#8221;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Computational estimation</em>: Determining a number that is an approximation of a computation
                    that we cannot or do not need to determine precisely. For example, we might want to know the
                    approximate amount we are spending at a store and need to add the cost of several items to see
                    whether $20.00 will cover the amount.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>

        <p>As early as grade 2, we teach strategies to help children develop an understanding of what it means to
            estimate computations and length measurements (2.MD.A.3) as well as time to the nearest five minutes
            (2.MD.C.7).</p>
        <p>Children are not as good at computational estimation as they are at producing exact answers and sometimes
            find computational estimation uncomfortable (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_385"
                >Siegler &amp; Booth, 2005</a>). In particular, many children confuse the idea
            of estimation with guessing. None of the three types of estimation involves guessing. Each involves
            reasoning and sense making. Computational estimation, for example, actually involves computing. Therefore,
            it&#8217;s important to (1) avoid using the words <em>guess</em> and <em>guessing</em> when working on
            estimation activities and (2) explicitly help children see the difference between a guess and a reasonable
            estimate.</p>
        <p>Computational estimation may be underemphasized in situations where the focus is on the standard algorithm.
            But, when approaching mathematics as a sense-making endeavor, once children have found a solution, they
            should look back at the end of a computation and be able to see whether the answer is in the
            ballpark&#8212;to &#8220;detect possible errors by strategically using estimation and other mathematical
            knowledge&#8221; (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" >CCSSO, 2010</a>, p. 7).
            Take 403 &#x02212; 138, <span id="page263" class="pagebreak" title="263" />mentioned previously. At a glance,
            this answer has to be less than 300, so an incorrect answer of 375 (a common error) would be recognized as
            impossible.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>