<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Tips for Using Representations in the Classroom</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-12">Tips for Using Representations in the Classroom</h3>
</header>
<p>Representations give learners something with which they can explore, reason, and communicate as they engage in problem-based tasks. The goal of using representations is that children are able to manipulate ideas and make connections in a meaningful manner. The following are rules of thumb for using representations in the classroom:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Introduce new representations or tools by showing how they can represent <em>the ideas</em> for which they are intended. But keep in mind that, because the representations are not the concepts, some children may not &#8220;see&#8221; what you see.</p></li>
<li><p>Encourage children to create their own representations. Look for opportunities to connect these student-created representations to more conventional representations.</p></li>
<li><p>Allow children (in most instances) the opportunity to choose their own representations to reason through a problem and to communicate their ideas to others (Mathematical Practice 5: Use appropriate tools strategically). The representations that children choose to use can provide valuable insight into their ways of interpreting and thinking about the mathematical ideas at hand. Note that it is appropriate to encourage a child who is having difficulty to use a particular representation when you believe it would be helpful.</p></li>
<li><p>Ask children to use representations, such as diagrams and manipulatives, when they explain their thinking. This will help you gather information about children&#8217;s understanding of the idea and also their understanding of the representations that have been used in the classroom. It can also be helpful to other children in the classroom who may be struggling with the idea or the explanation being offered.</p></li>
<li><p>In creating tasks and when facilitating classroom discussions, look for opportunities to make connections among the different representations used (and make sure each is understood). Helping children make these connections is crucial to their learning.</p></li>
</ul>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="teach07">
<header><h2 class="title" id="teach07">Teaching Tip</h2></header>

<p>Pay attention to children&#8217;s choices of representations and use those representations as starting points for dialogues with them about their thinking. What they find important may be surprising and informative at the same time.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>