<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Strategies to Avoid</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch06-head-10">Strategies to Avoid</h3>
        </header>
        <p>There are a number of ineffective approaches for gifted children, including the following:
        </p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p><em>Assigning more of the same work.</em> This is the least appropriate way to respond to
                    mathematically gifted children and the most likely to result in children hiding their ability.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Giving free time to early finishers.</em> Although children find this rewarding, it does not
                    maximize their intellectual growth and can lead to children hurrying to finish a task.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Assigning gifted children to help struggling learners.</em> Routinely assigning gifted children
                    to teach other children who are not meeting expectations does not stimulate their intellectual
                    growth and can place them in socially uncomfortable or sometimes undesirable situations.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Providing gifted pull-out opportunities.</em> Unfortunately, generalized gifted programs are
                    often unrelated to the regular mathematics curriculum (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_171"
                        >Assouline &amp; Lupkowski-Shoplik, 2011</a>). Disconnected, add-on
                    experiences are not enough to build more complex and sophisticated understanding of mathematics.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><span id="page93" class="pagebreak" title="93" />
                    <em>Offering independent enrichment on the computer.</em> Although there are excellent enrichment
                    opportunities to be found on the Internet and terrific apps, the practice of having gifted children
                    use a computer program that focuses on skills does not engage them in a way that will enhance
                    conceptual understanding, critical thinking, or support children&#8217;s ability to justify their
                    thinking.
                </p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <p>Sheffield writes that gifted children should be introduced to the &#8220;joys and frustrations of thinking
            deeply about a wide range of original, open-ended, or complex problems that encourage them to respond
            creatively in ways that are original, fluent, flexible, and elegant&#8221;
            (1999, p. 46). Accommodations, modifications, and interventions for mathematically gifted children must
            strive for this goal.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch06-stop-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch06-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>How is equity in the classroom different from teaching all children equitably?</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>