<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 7: Collaborating with Families and Other Stakeholders</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page94" class="pagebreak" title="94" /><span class="number">Chapter 7</span>
            </h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">Collaborating with Families and Other Stakeholders</h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h2 class="title" id="chap07-head2_1">Sharing the Message with Stakeholders</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Teaching mathematics developmentally, addressing the increased content demands articulated in the <em>Common
                Core State Standards</em> initiative (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_215"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>), and ensuring that children are mathematically proficient
            requires <em>everyone&#8217;s</em> commitment. We often hear educators make statements such as &#8220;You
            must have the principal&#8217;s support&#8221; and &#8220;You need to get parents on board,&#8221; and we
            nod our heads in agreement. As educators it is not enough to know what the changes are; we must also
            understand <em>why</em> change in mathematics content and teaching strategies is needed and be able to share
            this message in jargon-free ways with families, administrators, politicians, and other stakeholders. And,
            involving stakeholders is not only about getting support for your mathematics program&#8212;it is about
            supporting student learning! Parental involvement at school results in higher levels of student academic
            achievement (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_210" >Barnard, 2004</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_228" >Lee &amp; Bowen, 2006</a>). In this chapter,
            we discuss ideas for developing a collaborative community that understands and is able to support
            high-quality mathematics teaching and learning for every student. Also, we hope that this chapter (and the
            rest of this book) is helpful in presenting a strong case for why we need to teach
            developmentally-appropriate, student-centered mathematics.</p>
        <p><span id="page95" class="pagebreak" title="95" />Changes to the mathematics curriculum&#8212;new textbooks,
            content topics, technologies, teaching philosophies, instructional strategies, and routines&#8212;warrant
            communication with parents, principals, and community leaders. Communicating with families is one of the
            most important components of successfully implementing a new mathematics curriculum (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_212" >Bay, Reys, &amp; Reys, 1999</a>). Without
            such opportunities for communication, people may draw their own conclusions about the effectiveness of the
            mathematics curriculum, develop frustrations and negative opinions about what is happening in their
            child&#8217;s classroom or school, and communicate this apprehension to other parents and community leaders.
            This has certainly been the case in states that initially adopted the <em>Common Core State Standards</em>
            (CCSS-M), and then had it voted out again. The reasons people opposed the standards (or support them) are
            sometimes not actually characteristics of the CCSS-M but, rather, characteristics that have been assigned to
            the CCSS-M.</p>
        <p>Rather than hope that there will be support for changes in mathematics teaching and learning, it is important
            to anticipate possible questions and concerns and develop a plan to address them (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_211" >Bay-Williams &amp; Meyer, 2003</a>). <a
                class="xref" href="chapter0007_00.xhtml#Tab_7-1">Table 7.1</a> highlights common questions parents and
            other stakeholders ask about mathematics programs.</p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img50" id="Tab_7-1">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">7.1</span>Questions related to
                    change in mathematics teaching and learning.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col">Category</th>
                    <th scope="col">Types Of Questions</th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>Why Change? </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Why is mathematics teaching changing?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Is there evidence that this approach or curriculum is effective?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>What are the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> and why do we have national
                                    standards?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Where can I learn more about the <em>Common Core State Standards</em>?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Pedagogy </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Why isn&#8217;t the teacher teaching? (And what is the point of reinventing the
                                    wheel?)</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Why is my child struggling more than in previous years?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are children doing their own work when they are in groups? Is my child doing the work
                                    of other children?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Are calculators and other technology interfering with my child&#8217;s fluency?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Content</td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Is my child learning the basic skills?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Why is my child learning different algorithms/strategies (than I learned) for doing
                                    the operations?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Why are there less skills and more story problems?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Student Learning and Outcomes </td>
                    <td>
                        <ul class="bulleted">
                            <li>
                                <p>Will these standards prepare my child for middle school, high school, college, and
                                    beyond (e.g., ready for ACT, SAT, Algebra in eighth or ninth grade)?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>Why is my child struggling more than in previous years?</p>
                            </li>
                            <li>
                                <p>How can I help my child with their homework; to be successful?</p>
                            </li>
                        </ul>
                    </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <p>Be proactive! Don&#8217;t wait for concerns or questions to percolate. Providing a forum for parents,
            administrators, and community leaders around mathematics highlights the importance of the subject and gives
            stakeholders confidence that your school is a great place for preparing children for college and beyond. In
            the sections that follow, we share possible responses to the four areas of concerns in <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0007_00.xhtml#Tab_7-1">Table 7.1</a>.</p>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap7-head3_1">Why Change?</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Change in many domains is considered a good thing. Why, then, is any change in mathematics teaching met with
            resistance? Additionally, the same people who claim to not be good at math or to not like math, are often
            the ones most concerned about changes in mathematics teaching and learning. Navigating through change in
            mathematics requires strong justification for why the change is occurring, and the justification must
            resonate with the particular stakeholders&#8217; concerns and experiences.<span id="page96"
                class="pagebreak" title="96" /></p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_0">Changes in Content</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Reflecting on how other professions&#8212;from doctors to mechanics to dentists to bankers to hair stylists
            have changed their practices over the past 25-plus years can make for an interesting comparison. Many fields
            have changed based on changes in society, different desired outcomes, available tools and technologies,
            research on what works, and new requirements within the job.</p>
        <p>Another approach is to share research on the <em>ineffectiveness</em> of the traditional U.S. approach to
            teaching mathematics. The Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS), an international
            study conducted regularly that includes many countries, continues to find that U.S. students achieve at an
            average level in fourth grade, then below average in mathematics than international students in eighth grade
            and high school. Discuss the implications of unpreparedness for children who want to seek higher-paying jobs
            on what is now an international playing field.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_1">Evidence for Change</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Just as research and advancements have changed procedures doctors and mechanics use, research and
            advancements have informed alterations in procedures used in mathematics. In teaching mathematics, this can
            be what we have learned about teaching (e.g., to start with concrete tools or to make connections explicit)
            or what we have learned about specific content (e.g., that writing equations in nontraditional ways improves
            student understanding of equivalence [<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_230" >McNeil,
                Fyfe, Petersen, Dunwiddie, &amp; Brletic-Shipley, 2011</a>]). Also, in nearly all careers, certain
            mathematical proficiencies are essential: being able to select appropriate tools, determine and implement a
            strategy or algorithm, communicate and compare approaches, and reflect on the result of a procedure or
            solution. In other words, preparing children to be college and career ready means addressing the
            mathematical proficiencies described in the CCSS Mathematical Practices and NCTM Process Standards.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap7-head4_2">CCSS Mathematics</h4>
        </header>
        <p><a class="xref" href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> addressed the CCSS. Here we focus on advocating
            with stakeholders related to the standards. If you are teaching in a &#8220;Common Core&#8221; state, then
            you may have encountered a number of questions about the CCSS and/or heard various incorrect facts
            communicated about the CCSS-Mathematics. CCSSI provides a list of myths and facts (see <a
                    href="http://www.corestandards.org/about-the-standards/myths-vs-facts/"
                    class="ulink">http://www.corestandards.org/about-the-standards/myths-vs-facts/</a>). Here
            we summarize six common (and detrimental) myths related to mathematics (with facts in <em>italics</em>
            afterward):</p>
        <p>Myth 1. CCSS are national standards. <em>Fact: CCSS was designed by Governors and State School Officers. They
                were adopted by states, and states can add to the core as they see fit. States are in charge of
                implementation and assessment of children.</em></p>
        <ul class="ul_none">
            <li>
                <p>Myth 2. CCSS-Mathematics lowers existing state standards. <em>Fact: An analysis of state standards
                        shows that the common core sets higher expectations than any individual state standards (and
                        states can add more rigor if they choose).</em></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Myth 3. CCSS are not internationally benchmarked. <em>Fact: This was a significant purpose in
                        creating the standards.</em></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Myth 4. CCSS do not prepare students for algebra in grade 8. <em>Fact: Those that complete CCSS-M
                        through grade 7 can take algebra in grade 8.</em></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Myth 5. CCSS content is not in the right place. <em>Fact: Content was placed based on learning
                        trajectories and research on student learning.</em></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Myth 6. CCSS dictates how teachers should teach. <em>Fact: The standards simply list what mathematics
                        should be learned at what level. The Mathematical Practices describe what a mathematically
                        proficient child can do. How to reach these outcomes for what a child should know and do are not
                        addressed in the standards.</em><span id="page97" class="pagebreak" title="97" /></p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch07-stop-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch07-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Consider a statement you have heard or used with families. Ask yourself, &#8220;How might a parent (or
                other stakeholder) respond if he or she heard this statement?&#8221; &#8220;What might the parent
                misinterpret?&#8221; &#8220;How might my principal respond?&#8221; Then, read the responses in the table
                to see whether they represent stakeholders like those in your setting.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Whether your state is or is not using the CCSS-M, there are no doubt times when changes in mathematics
            teaching and learning need to be communicated to various stakeholders. These messages must be carefully
            composed! We sometimes say things that, although well intentioned, increase the concerns of stakeholders
            rather than reassure them. <a class="xref" href="chapter0007_00.xhtml#Tab_7-2">Table 7.2</a> provides three
            such examples.</p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img50" id="Tab_7-2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">7.2</span>Statements and
                    possible (unintended) interpretations of the statements.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col">Original Statement</th>
                    <th scope="col">What a Stakeholder Might Think</th>
                    <th scope="col">A Stronger, Carefully Composed Statement</th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#8220;The [mathematics program] still addresses skills, but it also includes concepts.&#8221;
                    </td>
                    <td>&#8220;Why are they bringing skills up? They must be taking those away. My child/U.S. children
                        have to know basics. How can I put a stop to this?&#8221; </td>
                    <td>&#8220;The skills in the [mathematics program] are expanding from what we once learned and now
                        include . . .&#8221; </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#8220;It is important for children to learn from one another, so I will be more in the role of
                        facilitator.&#8221; </td>
                    <td>&#8220;The teacher is not teaching? My child does better when things are explained clearly. When
                        I come to see you teach, what am I looking for if you are just letting the kids learn on their
                        own?&#8221; </td>
                    <td>&#8220;In our classroom, we learn from one another. I give carefully selected tasks for children
                        to discuss, and then we talk about them together so that everyone has a chance to learn the
                        mathematics we are doing, and that approach gives me the chance to work one-on-one as
                        needed.&#8221; </td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>&#8220;This year, we are doing a whole new mathematics program that the state has
                        adopted.&#8221;
                    </td>
                    <td>&#8220;My worst nightmare&#8212;an experiment of something new during the years my child is in
                        elementary school. This will cause problems for the rest of his life.&#8221; </td>
                    <td>&#8220;We are doing some new things in order to make sure your child is well prepared for .
                        . . [or that our program is the best available]. You might have noticed that last year we [added
                        writing as a component to our math program]. This year, here are the big things we hope to
                        accomplish . . .&#8221; </td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <p>Initially, these statements may not seem harmful, but they can set off alarms from the lens of a stakeholder.
            Consider these reactions, and then review the shifted language in the third column, which communicates a
            stronger (and less potentially disconcerting) message. It is very important to convey to stakeholders an
            excitement for and pride in your mathematics program. Being tentative, reserved, vague, or silent on the
            mathematics program can only raise concerns in the community. Help parents and administrators to understand
            that the mathematics program children are experiencing aligns with best practices in education, represents
            what children need to know in today&#8217;s world, and prepares children for mathematics at the next level
            as well as the mathematics they need for life.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>