<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Invented Strategies</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap12-head3_2">Invented Strategies</h3>
        </header>
        <p>An <em>invented strategy</em> is any strategy, other than the standard algorithm, that does not involve the
            use of physical materials or counting by ones (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_363"
                >Carpenter, Franke, Jacobs, Fennema, &amp; Empson, 1998</a>). For first and
            second graders, the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>) describe these as &#8220;strategies based on place value,
            properties of operations, and/or the relationship between addition and subtraction&#8221; (pp. 16, 19). More
            specifically, children are expected to &#8220;develop, discuss, and use efficient, accurate, and
            generalizable methods to compute sums and differences of whole numbers in base-ten notation, using their
            understanding of place value and the properties of operations&#8221; (p. 17). At times, invented strategies
            become mental methods after ideas have been explored, used, discussed, and understood. For example, after
            some experience, children may be able to do <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="75 plus 19" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>75</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>19</mn></math> mentally (<math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math242_02.png" alttext="75 plus 29" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="57px" class="informalequation"><mn>75</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>20</mn></math> is 95, less 1 is 94). For <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="648 plus 257" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>648</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>257</mn></math>,
            children may need to write down intermediate steps (i.e., add 2 to 648) to support their memory as they work
            through the problem. (Try that one yourself.) In the classroom, written records of thinking are often
            encouraged as strategies develop because they are more easily shared and help children focus on the
            reasoning used. Distinctions among written, partially written, and mental computation are not important,
            especially in the development period.</p>
        <p>A number of research studies have focused attention on how children handle computational situations when they
            have been given options for multiple strategies (see, for example, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_375"
                >Keiser, 2010</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_377"
                >Lynch &amp; Star, 2014</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_384"
                >Rittle-Johnson, Star, &amp; Durkin, 2010</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_387" >Verschaffel, Greer, &amp; De Corte,
                2007</a>). &#8220;There is mounting evidence that children both in and out of school can construct
            methods for adding and subtracting multi-digit numbers without explicit instruction&#8221; (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_363" >Carpenter et al., 1998</a>, p. 4). One of
            the best ways for children to grow their repertoire is to listen to the strategies invented by classmates as
            they are shared, explored, and tried out by others. However, children should not be permitted to use any
            strategy without understanding it.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Contrasts with Standard Algorithms</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Consider the following significant differences between invented strategies and standard algorithms.</p>
        <ol class="numbered">
            <li>
                <p><em>Invented strategies are number oriented rather than digit oriented.</em> Using the standard
                    algorithm for <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="45 plus 32" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>45</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>32</mn></math>, children think of <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="4 plus 3" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>4</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>3</mn></math> instead of 40 and 30. Kamii, longtime advocate for
                    invented strategies, claims that standard algorithms &#8220;unteach&#8221; place value (<a
                        class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_373" >Kamii &amp; Dominick, 1998</a>). By
                    contrast, an invented strategy works with the complete numbers. For example, an invented strategy
                    for 618 &#x02212; 254 might begin with 600 &#x02212; 200 is 400. Another approach might begin with 254,
                    and add 46 which is 300. Then 300 more to 600 and so on. In either case, the computation is
                    number-oriented.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><span id="page243" class="pagebreak" title="243" /><em>Invented strategies tend to be left-handed
                        rather than right-handed.</em> Invented strategies often begin with the largest parts of numbers
                    (leftmost digits) because they focus on the entire number. For <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="86 plus 17" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>86</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>17</mn></math>, many invented strategies
                    will begin with <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="80 plus 10" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>80</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>10</mn></math> or <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="86 plus 10" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>86</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>10</mn></math> or even <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="86 plus 20" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>86</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>20</mn></math>, providing some sense of the size of the eventual
                    answer in just one step. In contrast, the standard algorithm begins with <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="6 plus 7" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>7</mn></math> is 13. By beginning
                    on the right with a digit orientation, the result is hidden until the end. The standard long
                    division algorithm is the exception.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Invented strategies provide a range of flexible options rather than &#8220;one right
                        way.&#8221;</em> Invented strategies depend on the numbers involved. Children change the numbers
                    in ways to make the computation easier. Try each of these mentally: <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="465 plus 230" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>465</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>230</mn></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01_02.png" alttext="526 plus 98" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="75" class="inlineequation">
<mn>526</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>98</mn></math>. Did you
                    use the same method? The standard algorithm suggests using the same approach on all problems. The
                    standard algorithm for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01_03.png" alttext="7000 minus 25" altimg-height="13" altimg-width="85" class="inlineequation">
<mn>7000</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>25</mn></math> typically leads to student errors, yet a mental strategy is
                    relatively simple.</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Benefits of Invented Strategies</h4>
        </header>
        <p>The development and use of invented strategies generate procedural proficiency and more. The positive
            benefits are difficult to ignore.</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>Children make fewer errors</em>. Research reveals that when children use their own computational
                    strategies they tend to make fewer errors because they understand their own methods (<a
                        class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_369" >Gravemeijer &amp; van Galen,
                        2003</a>). Even when well explained and illustrated with base-ten blocks, many children do not
                    understand the underlying concepts of standard algorithms. Not only do these children make more
                    errors, but the errors are often systemic and difficult to remediate. Errors with invented
                    strategies are less frequent and rarely systemic.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Less reteaching is required</em>. Often teachers are concerned when children&#8217;s early
                    efforts with invented strategies are slow and time consuming. But the productive struggle in these
                    early stages builds a meaningful and well-integrated network of ideas that is robust and long
                    lasting and significantly decreases the time required for reteaching.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Children develop number sense</em>. Children&#8217;s development and use of number-oriented, f
                    lexible algorithms help them cultivate a rich understanding of the number system, especially
                    place-value concepts. In contrast, children who frequently use standard algorithms are unable to
                    explain why they work and do not demonstrate robust number sense.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Invented strategies are the basis for mental computation and estimation.</em> When invented
                    strategies are the norm for computation, there is no need to talk about mental computation and
                    estimation as if they were separate skills. The number-oriented (as opposed to digit-oriented)
                    perspective and the use of benchmark numbers in invented strategies helps children develop a sense
                    of the magnitude of the answer (estimation). Also, as children become more and more proficient with
                    these f lexible methods, they find they are able to use them mentally without having to write down
                    even intermediate steps.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Flexible methods are often faster than the standard algorithms.</em> Consider 300 &#x02212; 98. A
                    simple invented strategy might use <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="300 minus 100 equals 200" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>300</mn><mo>-</mo><mn>100</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>200</mn></math>. Adding 2 back (because we subtracted 2 too
                    many), we get 202. This is easily done mentally, or even with some recording, in much less time than
                    the steps to the standard algorithm. Those who become adept with invented strategies will
                    consistently perform addition and subtraction computations more quickly than those using a standard
                    algorithm.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Strategy invention is itself a significantly important process of &#8220;doing
                        mathematics.&#8221;</em> Children who invent a computational strategy or who adopt a meaningful
                    strategy shared by a classmate are involved in the process of sense making and building confidence.
                    This development of procedures is a process that is often hidden from children when the <span
                        id="page244" class="pagebreak" title="244" />emphasis is only on standard algorithms. By
                    engaging in this aspect of mathematics, a significantly different and valuable view of &#8220;doing
                    mathematics&#8221; is revealed to learners.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Invented strategies serve children well on standardized tests.</em> Evidence suggests that
                    children using invented strategies do as well or better than children using standard algorithms for
                    computation on standardized tests (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_367"
                        >Fleischman, Hopstock, Pelczar, &amp; Shelley, 2010</a>; <a
                        class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_368" >Fuson, 2003</a>).</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title">Mental Computation</h4>
        </header>
        <p>A mental computation strategy is simply any invented strategy that is done mentally without recording steps.
            What may be a mental strategy for one child may require written support by another child. Initially,
            children may not be ready to do computations mentally, as they may still be at the direct modeling stage or
            need to notate parts of the problem as they think it through. As your children become more adept, they can
            and should be challenged to do appropriate computations mentally. You may be quite amazed at the ability of
            children (and at your own ability) to do mental mathematics. Watch <a
                    href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0131_iPad" class="ulink">Connor</a> use two
            different invented strategies to mentally solve <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="39 plus 25" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>39</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>25</mn></math>.</p>
        <p>Try this example using mental mathematics:</p>
        <p><math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math235_01.png" alttext="342 plus 153 plus 481" altimg-height="13px" altimg-width="33px" class="informalequation"><mn>342</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>153</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>481</mn></math></p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch12-stop-02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch12-stop-02">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>For this addition task, try this method: Begin by adding the hundreds, saying the totals as you
                go&#8212;3 <em>hundred</em>, 4 <em>hundred</em>, 8 <em>hundred</em>. Then add on to this amount the tens
                in successive manner and finally the ones. What mental strategy did (or could) you use as you add on the
                tens?</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>