<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Weight and Mass</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header id="chap15-head3_16">
<h3 class="title">Weight and Mass</h3>
</header>
<p><em>Weight</em> is a measure of the pull or force of gravity on an object. <em>Mass</em> is the amount of matter in an object and a measure of the force needed to accelerate it. On the moon, where gravity is much less than on Earth, an object has a smaller weight than on Earth but the identical mass. For practical purposes, on Earth, the measures of mass and weight will be about the same. In this discussion, the terms <em>weight</em> and <em>mass</em> will be used interchangeably.</p>
<p>Although units of weight or mass appear in the expectations of the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> for third graders, it is good preparation for younger children to explore the attribute of weight using informal units.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Comparison Activities</h4></header>
<p>Starting in kindergarten, children begin to explore the concept of heavier and lighter. The most conceptual way for children to compare the weights of two objects is to hold one in each hand, extend their arms, and experience the relative downward pull on each&#8212;effectively communicating to a preK&#8211;1 child what &#8220;heavier&#8221; or &#8220;weighs more&#8221; means. This personal experience can then be transferred to one of two basic types of scales&#8212;balances and spring scales.</p>
<p>When introducing children to a balance, have them estimate which of two objects is heavier by holding one in each hand. When they then place the objects in the two pans of the balance, the pan that goes down can be understood to hold the heavier object. If two objects are placed one at a time in a spring scale, the heavier object pulls the pan down farther. Both balances and spring scales have real value in the classroom. (Technically, spring scales measure weight and balance scales measure mass. Why?) With either scale, sorting and ordering tasks are possible with very young children.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Using Physical Models of Weight or Mass Units</h4></header>
<p>Any collection of uniform objects with the same mass can serve as nonstandard weight units. For very light objects, large paper clips, wooden blocks, or plastic cubes work well. You can also use coins for weight units (e.g., U.S. nickels weigh 5 grams and pennies weigh 2.5 grams). Large metal washers found in hardware stores are effective for weighing slightly heavier objects. You will need to rely on standard weights to weigh things as heavy as a kilogram or more.</p>
<p>To measure the weight of objects you can use either a two-pan balance or a spring scale. With a balance scale, place an object in one pan and weights in the other pan until they balance. (Take the opportunity to make the connection to the equal sign, as discussed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0013_00.xhtml">Chapter 13</a>, in which pan balances are used to think about creating equivalent quantities on each side.) With a spring scale, first place the object in the pan and mark the position of the pan on a piece of paper taped behind the pan. Remove the object and place just enough weights in the pan to pull it down to the same level. Discuss how equal weights will pull the spring with the same force.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
