<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Time</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Time</h2></header>
<p>Time is different from most other attributes that are commonly measured in school because it cannot be seen or felt. This difference makes it more difficult for children to comprehend units of time and how those units are matched against a given time period or duration.</p>
<p><span id="page349" class="pagebreak" title="349" /></p>
<header id="chap15-head3_9">
<h3 class="title">Comparison Activities</h3>
</header>
<p>Time can be thought of as the duration of an event from its beginning to its end. As with other attributes, for children to adequately understand the attribute of time, they should make comparisons of events that have different durations. If two events begin at the same time, the shorter duration will end first and the other last longer&#8212;for example, which windup toy lasts longer? However, this form of comparison focuses on the ending of the duration rather than the duration itself. In order to think of time as something that can be measured, we need to focus on the duration itself. This requires that some form of measurement of time be used.</p>
<p>As children learn about seconds, minutes, and hours, they should develop some concept of how long these measurement units are. Have children time familiar events in their daily lives, such as brushing teeth, eating dinner, riding to school, and doing homework. Point out to children the duration of short and long events during the school day. Timing short events of <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math347.png" alttext="1 half" altimg-height="35" altimg-width="18" class="informalequation">
<mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac></math> minute to 2 minutes can be fun and helpful to children as they become familiar with measuring the duration of an activity. Children can work in pairs and use a timer, such as a stopwatch, to time engaging tasks that address duration. Here are some suggestions:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Stacking 10 blocks one at a time and then removing them one at a time</p></li>
<li><p>Saying your full name</p></li>
<li><p>Walking along a designated path from beginning to end</p></li>
<li><p>Watering a plant</p></li>
<li><p>Reading a page in a book</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For other examples, check out <em>Just a Second</em> where author <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_477" >Steve Jenkins (2011b)</a> shares some interesting events that occur in just 1 second, 1 minute, and 1 hour. For example, a hummingbird beats its wings 50 times in one second; a hamster&#8217;s heart beats about 450 times in one minute; and an adult takes about 900 breaths in one hour. As children compare the duration of various events to the units of seconds, minutes, and hours, they become more comfortable with the idea of measuring time.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
