<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Life-Long Learning: An Invitation to Learn and Grow</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Life-Long Learning: An Invitation to Learn and Grow</h2>
        </header>
        <p>In her book <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_35" ><em>Building A Better Teacher</em>
            (2015)</a>, Elizabeth Green attacks the myth of the natural-born
            teacher&#8212;the common notion that good teachers are good because of an innate ability for teaching.
            Instead she develops the case that teaching is a complex craft that must be taught and developed over time.
            No matter where you are in your journey as a teacher, there is always more to learn about the content and
            methodology of teaching mathematics. In fact, the mathematics content and teaching described in this book
            may not be similar to what you experienced as a student in grades K&#8211;8. We know a great deal more about
            teaching and learning mathematics than we did even five years ago! Just as we would not expect doctors to be
            using the exact same techniques and medicines that were prevalent when you were a child, teachers&#8217;
            methods should be transformed through the powerful collection of expert knowledge about how to design
            effective instruction based on such things as how the mind functions and the influence of motivation on
            learning (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_70" >Wiggins, 2013</a>).</p>
        <p>Planning three-phase inquiry lessons using worthwhile tasks and ensuring that the lesson meets the needs of
            all children requires intentional and ongoing effort. Questions are likely to surface. You can access
            responses to seven of the most commonly asked questions about problem-based teaching approaches by
            <a
                    href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Frequently_Asked_Questions_Problem-Based_Approach_to_Instruction.pdf"
                    class="ulink">clicking here</a>. These questions and responses may help as you contemplate
            how to plan for your children, or consider ways to advocate for teaching through problem solving with other
            teachers, families, and/or administrators.
        </p>
        <p>The best teachers are always trying to improve their practice through reading the latest article, reading the
            newest book, attending the most recent conference, or participating in the next series of professional
            development opportunities. Highly effective teachers never stop learning&#8212;they never exhaust the number
            of new mental connections that they can make. As a result, they never experience teaching as a stale or
            stagnant profession.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch02-stop-03">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch02-stop-03">Stop and Reflect </h2>
            </header>
            <p>Describe in your own words what is (and isn&#8217;t) meant by &#8220;teaching mathematics
                <em>through</em> problem solving.&#8221; What do you foresee to be opportunities and challenges to
                implementing problem-based mathematics tasks effectively in your classroom?
            </p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>