<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Teaching Basic Facts Effectively</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Teaching Basic Facts Effectively</h2>
</header>
<p><span id="page184" class="pagebreak" title="184"/><a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_313" >Boaler (2015a)</a> describes an important research study in which researchers found a striking difference between low and high achieving children: when given computational problems, the high achieving children used number sense and strategies to change the numbers into easier numbers to work with; low achieving children did not. Instead, the low achieving children used inefficient counting strategies (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_323" >Gray &amp; Tall, 1994</a>). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_314" >Boaler (2015b</a>, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_315" >2016</a>) describes similar findings from data collected through the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA)&#8212;high achievers focused on reasoning and making connections between big ideas in math while low achievers focused on memorization.</p>
<p>To ensure that all children move away from inefficient counting strategies and become fluent with their basic facts, we need to commit to making reasoning strategies a central part of basic fact instruction. As you plan learning experiences to help children learn their basic facts, use the three phases described earlier to help guide your instruction. In particular, when discussing children&#8217;s strategies, focus their attention on the methods that will help them move from one phase to the next. For example, when solving 7 + 4 some children will have used counting on (phase 1). Others will use the Making 10 strategy (7 + 3 is 10 and 1 more equals 11). Help children who are counting on to see the connections to Making 10. To move from phase 2 to recall, continue to provide engaging and diverse experiences where children are using and talking about their strategies. Through these varied experiences and discussions all children will become quicker and eventually will &#8220;just know&#8221; more and more facts.</p>
<p>Because the approaches of guided invention and teaching strategies explicitly emphasize reasoning and making connections, we focus on these two effective approaches for helping children move from counting to strategies to recall. For a guided invention approach we recommend using purposefully designed story problems to elicit particular strategies. To add to children&#8217;s existing strategies, use the second approach, explicitly teach reasoning strategies. You will find a combination of these two approaches will serve your children well.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_4">Use Purposefully Designed Story Problems</h3>
</header>
<p>Research has found that when a strong emphasis is placed on solving problems, children not only become better problem solvers but also master more basic facts than children in a drill-oriented program (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_334" >National Research Council, 2001</a>). In fact, posing a story problem each day, followed by a brief discussion of the strategies that children used, can improve children&#8217;s accuracy and efficiency with basic facts (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_337" >Rathmell, Leutzinger, &amp; Gabriele, 2000</a>). Story problems provide context that can help children make sense of the situation and provide opportunities for children to explore a variety of strategies for doing computation.</p>
<p>A guided invention approach to teaching basic facts means that you purposefully design tasks and problems that help children notice number relationships. Story problems lend themselves well to this purpose because they can be structured to increase the likelihood that children will develop the target strategy. For example, if you want to try to elicit the Make 10 strategy from your children, you could pose the following story problem:</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch10-smp-02">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch10-smp-02">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>1 Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them.</strong></p>
</aside>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch10_teach01">
<p>Rachel sold 9 boxes of Girl Scout cookies on Friday and 6 boxes on Saturday. How many boxes did she sell?<span id="page185" class="pagebreak" title="185"/></p>
</aside>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch10-stop-01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch10-stop-01">Stop and Reflect</h2>
</header>
<p>How does this problem increase the likelihood that children will develop the Make 10 strategy?</p>
</aside>
<p>The numbers and situation in this story lend themselves to thinking of <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math_185.png" alttext="9 plus 6 as 10 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>9</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>6</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>as</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>10</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn></math> (one box of cookies could be moved from Saturday to Friday). By having children place 9 counters in one ten-frame and 6 counters in another ten-frame, the structure of the ten-frame may also help elicit the Make 10 strategy. Even if children do not use the strategy you were intending, have them explain the strategies they did use. You can always share the Make 10 strategy as one you have seen other children use and ask your children to try it with another story problem.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="Standards for Mathematical Practice 2">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch10_math03">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>3 Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.</strong></p>
</aside>
<p>Some teachers are hesitant to use story problems with ELLs or children with disabilities because of the additional language or reading required. However, using story problems with all children is important because language supports understanding. Nonetheless, it is crucial that the contexts you use are relevant and understood by all the children.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>