<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Explicitly Teach Reasoning Strategies</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap10-head3_5">Explicitly Teach Reasoning Strategies</h3>
        </header>
        <p>Explicitly teaching reasoning strategies helps children expand their own collection of strategies and will
            help them move away from counting to more efficient ways of recalling facts quickly and accurately. The key
            idea is for children to make use of <em>known relationships</em> and <em>known facts</em> to <em>derive</em>
            unknown facts. For example, children might use one of their Combinations of 10 strategies, like <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math_185_1.png" alttext="7 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>7</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>3</mn></math>, to
            solve an unknown fact, like <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math_185_2.png" alttext="7 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>7</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn></math>, noticing that <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math_185_3.png" alttext="7 plus 5 equals 7 plus 3 plus 2" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>7</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>7</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>2</mn></math>. Keep this key idea in mind as you review
            each of the reasoning strategies described in this chapter. Watch how <a
                    href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0134_iPad" class="ulink">Connor</a>,
            <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0184_iPad" class="ulink">Myrna</a>, and
            <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0177_iPad" class="ulink">Miguel</a> use
            known facts to solve <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math_185_4.png" alttext="6 plus _____ equals 13." altimg-height="100" altimg-width="450" class="informalequation"><mn>6</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>_____</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>13</mn><mo>.</mo></math>
        </p>
        <p>You can design a lesson to help children examine a specific collection of facts for which a particular type
            of strategy is appropriate. Discuss as a class how these facts are alike, or you might suggest a strategy
            and see if children are able to use it with similar facts.</p>
        <p>Do not expect to introduce a strategy and have children understand and use the strategy after just one lesson
            or activity. Children need lots of opportunities to make the strategy their own. Make games and interactive
            activities part of daily work at school and home. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_322"
                >Godfrey and Stone (2013)</a> offer helpful tips on how to productively use
            game binders that children can take home. One of the most valuable points they make is the need to
            communicate with families about the importance of developing fact fluency through the development of
            strategies. Encourage families to play the games together and discuss the strategies they use.</p>
        <p>Encourage children to use particular strategies, but do not require them to do so&#8212;this is the opposite
            of what you are trying to accomplish as it takes the reasoning right out of strategy development. Instead,
            emphasize making good choices and justifying those choices.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch10_teach02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch10_teach02">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Display reasoning strategies for children to reference. Give the strategies names that make sense so that
                children know when to apply them (e.g., Make 10, Doubles).</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>