<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Teaching for Instrumental Understanding</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch01-head-04">Teaching for Instrumental Understanding</h3>
</header>
<p>In contrast to the lesson just described, in which children are developing concepts (understanding of place value) and procedures (ability to flexibly add) and building relationships between these ideas, let&#8217;s consider how a lesson with the same basic objective (addition using place-value concepts) might look if the focus is on instrumental understanding.</p>
<p>In this classroom, the teacher introduces only one way to solve multidigit addition problems&#8212;by modeling how to add numbers using base-ten materials. The teacher distributes base-ten blocks so that pairs of children have enough materials to solve any problem. The teacher reads to the class the same monkeys and bananas problem that was used earlier. The class quickly agrees that they need to add the two numbers in the problem. Using a Smart Board to demonstrate, the teacher directs the children to make the two numbers on their place-value mats. Care is taken that the 25 is shown with the base-ten blocks beneath the base-ten blocks for 36. The children are directed to begin combining the pieces in the ones place. A series of questions guides them through each step in the standard algorithm.</p>
<ol class="bulleted">
<li><p>How many ones are there all together?</p></li>
<li><p>What do we need to do with the 11 ones? (regroup, make a ten)<span id="page10" class="pagebreak" title="10" /></p></li>
<li><p>Where do we put the ten?</p></li>
<li><p>How many tens are there?</p></li>
<li><p>What is the answer?</p></li>
</ol>
<p>Next, the children are given five similar problems to solve using the base-ten blocks. They work in pairs and record answers on their papers. The teacher helps anyone having difficulty by guiding them through the same steps indicated by the preceding questions.</p>
<p>In this lesson the teacher and children are using manipulatives to illustrate regrouping in addition problems. After engaging in several similar lessons, most children are likely to remember and possibly understand how to add with regrouping using the standard algorithm. It is important to note that this lesson on the standard algorithm, in combination with other lessons that reinforce other approaches, <em>can</em> build relational understanding, as it adds to children&#8217;s repertoire of strategies. But if this lesson represents the sole approach to adding, then children are more likely to develop an instrumental understanding of mathematics because the lesson provides few opportunities to build connections between mathematical concepts. For example, children are not provided opportunities to use mental counting strategies, the hundreds chart, or the number line to add the numbers. Seeing that all of these methods work to reach the same solution helps children build connections between mathematical ideas and across representations&#8212;fundamental characteristics of relational understanding.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch01-stop-03">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch01-stop-03">Stop and Reflect</h2></header>
<p>Before reading further, what similarities and differences did you notice between the two classrooms? How do you think these differences might affect the learning that takes place?</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>