<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Orchestrating Classroom Discourse</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
    <script type="text/javascript"
        src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Orchestrating Classroom Discourse</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Participating in discussions about mathematics contributes to children&#8217;s understanding in a multitude
            of ways. Discussions improve children&#8217;s ability to reason logically as they learn to share their ideas
            and listen to the ideas of others. Misconceptions and na&#239;ve conceptions are also more likely to be
            revealed in discussions, providing opportunities for teachers to explicitly address them. As children
            realize they can learn from each other, they are more motivated and interested in what their classmates have
            to say.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="teach04">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="teach04">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>What are misconceptions and na&#239;ve conceptions? Consider a misconception as a student understanding
                that is not mathematically accurate, for example, thinking fourths means four parts regardless of the
                size of the parts. A na&#239;ve conception is a partial and typically less powerful, but mathematically
                accurate understanding&#8211;for example, thinking of subtraction in terms of separating or take-away
                (and not also as comparison and missing part). In either case, these conceptions are important to
                diagnose so that a deep understanding can be developed.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Learning how to orchestrate an effective classroom discussion is quite complex and requires attention to a
            number of elements. The goal of productive discourse is to keep the cognitive demand high while children are
            learning and formalizing mathematical concepts (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_25"
                >Breyfogle &amp; Williams, 2008/2009</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_45"
                >Kilic et al., 2010</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_58"
                >Smith, Hughes, Engle, &amp; Stein, 2009</a>). The purpose is not for children
            to state their answers and get validation from the teacher. The aspects involved in orchestrating classroom
            discourse are so important, they directly involve three out of the eight teaching practices from <span
                id="page25" class="pagebreak" title="25" /><em>Principles to Actions</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_51" >NCTM, 2014</a>): Facilitate meaningful
            mathematical discourse; Pose purposeful questions; and Elicit and use evidence of student thinking.</p>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-06">Classroom Discussions</h3>
        </header>
        <p>The value of student talk throughout a mathematics lesson cannot be overemphasized. As children describe and
            evaluate solutions to tasks, share approaches, and make conjectures, learning will occur in ways that are
            otherwise unlikely to take place. Questions such as those that ask children if they would do it differently
            next time, which strategy made sense to them (and why), and what caused problems for them (and how they
            overcame them) are critical in developing mathematically proficient children. As they listen to other
            children&#8217;s ideas, they come to see the varied approaches in how problems can be solved and see
            mathematics as something that they can do.</p>
        <p><a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_60" >Smith and Stein (2011)</a> identified five
            teacher actions for orchestrating productive mathematics discussions: anticipating, monitoring, selecting,
            sequencing, and connecting. The first action, <em>anticipating</em> responses to the selected worthwhile
            task, takes place before the lesson even begins. As children work on the task, the teacher
            <em>monitors</em>, observing children&#8217;s strategies and asking questions such as:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p>How did you decide what to do? Did you use more than one strategy?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>What did you do that helped you make sense of the problem?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Did you find any numbers or information you didn&#8217;t need? How did you know that the information
                    was not important?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Did you try something that didn&#8217;t work? How did you figure out it was not going to work?</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>These and similar questions are meant to help children reflect on their strategies and help the teacher
            determine which strategies to <em>select</em> for public discussion in the next part of the lesson. Having
            selected a range of strategies to be shared, the teacher strategically <em>sequences</em> the presentations
            so that particular mathematical ideas can be emphasized. During the presentations, the teacher generates
            questions and ideas that <em>connect</em> strategies and mathematical concepts. These tend to be questions
            that are specific to the task, but some general questions include:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p>How did [Kathy] represent her solution? What mathematical terms, symbols, or tools did she use? How
                    is this like/different from [Colin&#8217;s] strategy?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Was there something in the task that reminded you of another problem we&#8217;ve done?</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>What might you do the same or differently the next time you encounter a similar problem?</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>Notice these questions focus on the problem-solving process as well as the answer, and what worked as well as
            what didn&#8217;t work. A balanced discussion helps children learn how to do mathematics.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_teach05">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="teach05">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>To help teach children to pay attention to their peers when they are sharing ideas, create two different
                kinds of cards, ones with a picture of lips or a mouth and others with a picture of an ear. When a child
                is speaking, the child holds the card with the picture of the mouth. The other children hold pictures of
                the ear to indicate they are listening. You can attach the picture of the mouth on the end of a stick to
                hand to the child whose turn it is to speak.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Because of the important benefits of talking about mathematical ideas, you also need to make sure that
            everyone participates in the classroom discussion. Finding ways to encourage children to share their ideas
            and to engage with others about their ideas is essential to productive discussions. You may need to
            explicitly discuss with children why discussions are important and what it means to actively listen and
            respond to others&#8217; ideas. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_67" >Wagganer
                (2015)</a> shares some <span id="page26" class="pagebreak" title="26" />helpful ideas to explicitly
            teach children how to engage in active listening. For example, children can demonstrate they are listening
            by making eye contact with the speaker and through nonverbal cues (e.g., nodding); letting the speaker
            finish before sharing questions or ideas; and responding appropriately and respectfully by asking questions
            or summarizing the speaker&#8217;s ideas. Also, <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_07.xhtml#Tab_2-4">Table
                2.4</a> identifies five &#8220;talk moves&#8221; that help get everyone talking about mathematics (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_28" >Chapin, O&#8217;Connor, &amp; Anderson,
                2009</a>).</p>
        <figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_2-4">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">2.4</span> Productive talk
                    moves for supporting classroom discussions.</h2>
            </header>
        </figure>
        <table>
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Talk Moves</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>What It Means and Why</strong></th>
                    <th scope="col"><strong>Example Teacher Prompts</strong></th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>1. Revoicing</td>
                    <td>This move involves restating the statement as a question in order to clarify, apply appropriate
                        language, and involve more students. It is an important strategy to reinforce language and
                        enhance comprehension for ELLs.</td>
                    <td>&#8220;You used the hundreds chart and counted on?&#8221; &#8220;So, first you recorded your
                        measurements in a table?&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>2. Rephrasing</td>
                    <td>Asking students to restate someone else&#8217;s ideas in their own words will ensure that ideas
                        are stated in a variety of ways and encourage students to listen to each other.</td>
                    <td>&#8220;Who can share what Ricardo just said, but using your own words?&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>3. Reasoning</td>
                    <td>Rather than restate, as in talk move 2, this move asks the student what they think of the idea
                        proposed by another student.</td>
                    <td>&#8220;Do you agree or disagree with Johanna? Why?&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>4. Elaborating</td>
                    <td>This is a request for students to challenge, add on, elaborate, or give an example. It is
                        intended to get more participation from students, deepen student understanding, and provide
                        extensions.</td>
                    <td>&#8220;Can you give an example?&#8221; &#8220;Do you see a connection between Julio&#8217;s idea
                        and Rhonda&#8217;s idea?&#8221; What if . . . &#8221;</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>5. Waiting</td>
                    <td>Ironically, one &#8220;talk move&#8221; is to not talk. Quiet time should not feel
                        uncomfortable, but should feel like thinking time. If it gets awkward, ask students to
                        pair-share, and then try again.</td>
                    <td>&#8220;This question is important. Let&#8217;s take some time to think about it.&#8221;</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>
        <p class="source"><em>Source:</em> Based on <em>Classroom Discussions: Using Math Talk to Help Students Learn,
                Grades K&#8211;6</em>, by Suzanne H. Chapin, Catherine O&#8217;Connor, Nancy Canavan Anderson. Published
            by Math Solutions, &#169; 2009.</p>
        <p>Considerable research into how mathematical communities develop and operate provides additional insight into
            promoting effective classroom discourse (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_28"
                >Chapin, O&#8217;Connor, &amp; Anderson, 2009</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_56" >Rasmussen, Yackel, &amp; King, 2003</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_62" >Stephan &amp; Whitenack, 2003</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_71" >Wood, Williams, &amp; McNeal, 2006</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_72" >Yackel &amp; Cobb, 1996</a>). This collection
            of research offers the following recommendations:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p>Encourage student&#8211;student dialogue rather than student&#8211;teacher conversations that exclude
                    the rest of the class. &#8220;Juanita, can you answer Lora&#8217;s question?&#8221; &#8220;Devon,
                    can you explain that so that LaToya and Kevin can understand what you are saying?&#8221; When
                    children have differing solutions, have them work these ideas out as a class. &#8220;George, I
                    noticed that you got a different answer than Tara. What do you think about her explanation?&#8221;
                </p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Encourage children to ask questions. &#8220;Pete, did you understand how they did that? Do you want
                    to ask Antonio a question?&#8221;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Ask follow-up questions whether the answer is right or wrong. Your role is to understand
                    children&#8217;s thinking, not to lead children to the correct answer. So follow up with probes to
                    learn more about their answers. Sometimes you will find that what you assumed they were thinking is
                    not correct. And if you only follow up on wrong answers, children quickly figure this out and get
                    nervous when you ask them to explain their thinking.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Call on children in such a way that, over time, everyone is able to participate. Use time when
                    children are working in small groups to identify interesting solutions that you will highlight
                    during the sharing time. Be intentional about the order in which the solutions <span id="page27"
                        class="pagebreak" title="27" />are shared; for example, select two that you would like to
                    compare and have children present them back-to-back. All children should be prepared to share their
                    strategies.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Demonstrate to children that it is okay to be confused and that asking clarifying questions is
                    appropriate. This confusion, or disequilibrium, just means they are engaged in doing real
                    mathematics and indicates that they are learning. Make a point to tell them this!</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Move children to more conceptually based explanations when appropriate. For example, if a child says
                    that he knows <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                        altimg="../images/render25.png" alttext="5 plus 3" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250"
                        class="informalequation">
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>5</mn>
                            <mo>+</mo>
                            <mn>3</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </math> is the same as <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
                        altimg="../images/render26.png" alttext="3 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250"
                        class="informalequation">
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>3</mn>
                            <mo>+</mo>
                            <mn>5</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </math>, ask him (or another child) to explain why this is so.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Be sure all children are involved in the discussion. ELLs, in particular, need more than vocabulary
                    support; they need support with mathematical discussions (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_49"
                        >Moschkovich, 1998</a>). For example, use sentence starters or examples
                    to help children know what kinds of responses you are hoping to hear and to reduce the language
                    demands. Sentence starters can also be helpful for children with disabilities because it adds
                    structure. Have children practice their explanations with a peer. Invite children to use
                    illustrations and actual objects to support their explanations. These strategies benefit all
                    children, not just children in the class who struggle with language.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>Pay attention to whether you are taking over children&#8217;s thinking. <a
                        class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_44" >Jacobs, Martin, Ambrose, and Philipp
                        (2014)</a> identify warning signs of such behavior&#8212;for example, interrupting a
                    child&#8217;s strategy or explanation, manipulating the tools instead of allowing the child to do
                    so, and asking a string of closed questions (i.e., funneling). Taking over children&#8217;s thinking
                    sends the message that you do not believe they are capable and can inhibit the discourse you are
                    trying to encourage.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>