<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Limit Linguistic Load</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header><h3 class="title" id="ch05-head-11"><span id="page79" class="pagebreak" title="79" />Limit Linguistic Load </h3>
</header>
<p>If you are trying to assess child understanding, look for language that can interfere with children&#8217; understanding the situation (e.g., unneeded elaboration in a story, difficult or unfamiliar vocabulary). Removing pronouns such as <em>they, this, that, his,</em> and <em>her</em> and using actual names can assist ELLs in understanding some problems. For example, a typical story problem follows: </p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-10">
<p>Jacob had 9 comic books. For his birthday, his grandpa gives him some more for his collection. If he has 13 now, how many did he get for this birthday? </p>
</aside>
<p>Rewritten, it might read: </p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="sidenote-11">
<p>Jacob had 9 comic books. <u>Jacob&#8217;s</u> grandpa gave <u>Jacob</u> some more comic books. If Jacob has 13 <u>comic books</u> now, how many <u>comic books</u> did <u>Jacob</u> get from his grandpa? </p>
</aside>
<p>Notice that it is not only reducing unnecessary language (e.g., birthday, collection), but also adding specific referents that make the meaning of the story more clear. Of course, this particular problem could be adapted further by using illustrations or actual comic books. </p>
<p>If there are more problems in a lesson or assessment, staying with the same scenario/context allows children to focus their thinking on the mathematics without getting bogged down in different contexts. For example, children need opportunities to interpret story problems in which different parts are missing (the starting part, the part being added, and the whole). In this example, the part being added is what was missing. A collection of stories can be created with different parts missing (and different values used). Using the comic book context but changing the problem type reduces the linguistic load while keeping the mathematical challenge high. </p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="teach01">
<header><h2 class="title" id="teach01">Teaching Tip</h2>
</header>
<p>To reduce the linguistic load for children, pick one scenario/context, and stay with it for an entire lesson or series of lessons.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>