<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Chapter 8: Developing Early Number Concepts and Number Sense</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h1 class="title"><span id="page112" class="pagebreak" title="112" /><span class="number">Chapter 8</span>
</h1>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h1 class="title">
                Developing Early Number Concepts and Number Sense</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="objectiveset">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Big Ideas</h2>
            </header>
            <ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>1.</strong></span> Counting tells how many things are
                    in a set. When counting a set of objects, the last word in the counting sequence names the quantity
                    for that set. (<em>cardinality</em>)</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>2.</strong></span> Numbers are related to each other
                    through a variety of number relationships. The number 7, for example, is three more than 4, two less
                    than 9, composed of 3 and 4 as well as 2 and 5, is three away from 10, and can be quickly recognized
                    in several patterned arrangements of dots. These ideas further extend to an understanding of 17, 57,
                    and 370</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>3.</strong></span> Number concepts are intimately
                    tied to the world around us. Application of number relationships to problem solving marks the
                    beginning of making sense of the world in a mathematical manner.</li>
                <li class="objective"><span class="number"><strong>4.</strong></span> <em>Number sense</em> means that
                    you can think about and use numbers and their relationships in multiple ways to estimate and solve
                    problems.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <p>Research indicates that early number sense predicts school success more than other measures of cognition,
            such as verbal, spatial, or memory skills or reading ability (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_252"
                >Jordan, Kaplan, Locuniak, &amp; Ramineni, 2007</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_255" >Locuniak &amp; Jordan, 2008</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_256" >Mazzocco &amp; Thompson, 2005</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_264" >Watts, Greg, Duncan, Siegler, &amp;
                Davis-Kean, 2014</a>). So the importance of young children developing strong number sense cannot be
            overstated. To many adults, number may seem like a simple idea. But number is actually a complex and
            multifaceted concept. A rich and flexible understanding of number involves many different ideas,
            relationships, and skills. Young children enter school with many ideas about number and these ideas <span
                id="page113" class="pagebreak" title="113" />should be built upon to develop new relationships over
            time. With time and a variety of experiences, children can develop a thorough understanding of number that
            will in turn support the development of more advanced mathematical concepts. </p>
        <p>The emphasis that number and number sense receive in the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics&#8217;
            <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_259" >NCTM,
                2006</a>) and the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_242"
                >CCSSO, 2010</a>) speaks to their importance in the early childhood curriculum.
            <em>Curriculum Focal Points</em> emphasize that children in prekindergarten should work on concepts of
            one-to-one correspondence, counting, cardinality, and comparing small amounts using language such as
            &#8220;more than&#8221; and &#8220;less than.&#8221; According to the CCSS-M expectations, in kindergarten,
            children learn the counting sequence from 1 to 100, continue to connect counting to cardinality, and compare
            numbers from 1 to 10. First graders extend the counting sequence to 120 and begin to explore two-digit
            numbers as tens and ones. Second graders extend counting to 1000, explore three-digit numbers, and learn to
            skip count by 5s, 10s, and 100s.</p>
        <p>In 2009, the Committee on Early Childhood Mathematics, established by the National Research Council (NRC),
            identified three foundational areas in mathematics content for early learners: the number core, the
            relations core, and the operations core. This chapter focuses on the first two core areas while <a
                class="xref" href="chapter0009_00.xhtml">Chapter 9</a> addresses the third core by examining the meaning
            of operations. Note that as you help children develop their initial abilities with counting, conversations
            about number relationships begin. Therefore, the activities and concepts in this chapter are not sequential
            but coexist in a rich mathematical environment where children make connections between numbers.
        </p>
        <p>In particular, this chapter looks at the development of number ideas for 0 up through 20. These foundational
            ideas can be extended to content that enhances the development of number (e.g., measurement, data,
            operations) and content directly affected by how well early number concepts have been developed (e.g.,
            larger numbers, basic facts, place value, and computation). It all begins, though, with the critical ideas
            of counting and comparing quantities to build young children&#8217;s rich understanding of number concepts
            and robust number sense.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>