<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Pregrouped Models</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap11-head3_5"><span id="page212" class="pagebreak" title="212" />Pregrouped Models
            </h3>
        </header>
        <p>Models that are pregrouped are commonly shown in textbooks and are often used in instructional activities.
            Pregrouped models, such as those in <a class="xref" href="chapter0011_05.xhtml#fig_11-4">Figure 11.4(b)</a>
            and the <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/BLM32_Base-Ten_Materials.pdf"
                class="ulink"><strong>Base-Ten Materials</strong></a> (see <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/BLM32_Base-Ten_Materials.pdf"
                class="ulink">Blackline Master 32</a>), cannot be taken apart or put together. When 10 single pieces are
            accumulated, they must be exchanged or traded for a ten, and likewise, tens must be traded for hundreds. The
            chief advantage of these physical models is their ease of use and the efficient way they model large
            numbers.</p>
        <p>With pregrouped models, make an extra effort to make sure that children understand that a ten piece really is
            the same as 10 ones. Although there is a pregrouped cube to represent 1000, have children attach 10 hundred
            pieces together as a cube to show how the cube is formed. Otherwise, some children may count only the square
            units they see on the surface of the six faces and think the cube represents 600.</p>
        <p>Games, such as Race to 100, offer a motivating format in which children can actively engage in making equal
            trades, reinforcing the use of pregrouped base-ten models. Here is a <a
                href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0204_iPad" class="ulink"><strong>video</strong></a> of a
            child playing Race to 100 with a teacher. You may wish to provide children with a <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/BLM17_Place_Value_Mat_with_Ten-Frames.pdf"
                class="ulink"><strong>Place Value Mat</strong></a> that includes a ten-frame in the ones column to help
            keep track of the count (see <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/BLM17_Place_Value_Mat_with_Ten-Frames.pdf"
                class="ulink">Blackline Master 17</a>).</p>
        <p>The <a
                href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/V1_Little_Ten-Frames_1_and_2.pdf"
                class="ulink"><strong>Little Ten-Frames</strong></a> effectively link to the familiar ten-frames
            children have been using to think about numbers as discussed in <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0008_00.xhtml">Chapters 8</a> and <a class="xref" href="chapter0010_00.xhtml">10</a>, and
            as such, may initially be more meaningful than base-ten materials made from paper strips and squares (like
            <a href="https://media.pearsoncmg.com/ab/ab_TED_eTexts/ted_etext_2018_sco/Van_de_Walle/BLM32_Base-Ten_Materials.pdf"
                class="ulink">Blackline Master 32</a>). The little ten-frames model has the distinct advantage of always
            showing the distance to the next decade. For example, when 47 is shown with 4 ten cards and a seven card, a
            child can see that three more will make five full cards, or 50.</p>
        <p>A significant challenge with using the pregrouped physical models occurs when children have not had adequate
            experience working with groupable models. Then there is the potential for children to use them without ref
            lecting on the ten-to-one relationships. For example, if children are <em>told</em> to trade 10 ones for a
            ten, it is quite possible for them to make this exchange without attending to the &#8220;ten-ness&#8221; of
            the piece they call a ten. Similarly, children can &#8220;make the number 42&#8221; by simply picking up 4
            tens and 2 ones without understanding that if all the pieces were broken apart there would be 42 ones.
            Before moving to pregrouped models, pay attention to children&#8217;s explanations for when and why they
            group pieces and then once you have moved to pregrouped models, continue to ask children to justify when and
            why they make trades. The ten-to-one relationship should play a prominent role in their explanations and
            justifications.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch11-smp-03">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch11-smp-03">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>7 Look for and make use of structure</strong></p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch11_tech-note-01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch11_tech-note-01">Technology Note</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p><span id="page213" class="pagebreak" title="213" />Using electronic versions of base-ten manipulatives,
                children (including those with disabilities) can place ones, tens, hundreds, or thousands on the screen
                with simple mouse clicks. In the <em>Base Blocks</em> applets at the National Library of Virtual
                Manipulatives, children place the base-ten models on a place-value mat. When children lasso 10 pieces of
                one type with a rectangle, the pieces snap together into a larger base-ten piece. When a piece is
                dragged one column to the right, the piece breaks apart into 10 of that unit. As pieces are moved onto
                the place-value mat, a numeral is displayed that corresponds to the current quantity of base-ten
                materials. You can also adjust the columns to display two, three, or four place values. Scott
                Foresman&#8217;s <em>eTools</em> has a similar place-value tool with a few additional features.
                Place-value columns can be turned on and off, and the &#8220;odometer&#8221; option can show the number
                <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/math213.png" alttext="523 space as space 5 space h u n d r e d s space plus space 2 space t e n s space plus space 3 space o n e s comma space as space space 500 space plus space 20 space plus space 3 comma" altimg-height="63" altimg-width="220" class="informalequation">
<mn>523</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>as</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>5</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>h</mi><mi>u</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>d</mi><mi>r</mi><mi>e</mi><mi>d</mi><mi>s</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>t</mi><mi>e</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>s</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>o</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>e</mi><mi>s</mi><mo>,</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mi>as</mi><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>500</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>20</mn><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo></math> or as <em>five hundred
                    twenty-three.</em> A hammer icon will break a piece into 10 smaller pieces, and a glue bottle icon
                is used to group 10 pieces together.</p>
            <p>Compared to physical base-ten blocks, these virtual manipulatives are free, easily grouped and ungrouped,
                available in &#8220;endless&#8221; supply, and can be manipulated by children and displayed by projector
                or smart board. Even with all these advantages, virtual models are no more conceptual than physical
                models and as such are only a representation for children who understand the relationships involved.</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="Standards for Mathematical Practice 2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch11-smp-04">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
            </header>
            <p><strong>5 Use appropriate tools strategically.</strong></p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>