<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Observations</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Observations</h2>
</header>
<p>All teachers learn useful bits of information about their children every day. When the three-phase lesson format suggested in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> is used, the flow of evidence about children&#8217;s performance increases dramatically, especially in the <em>During</em> and <em>After</em> portions of lessons. If you have a systematic plan for gathering this information while observing and listening to children during regular classroom instruction, at least two very valuable results occur. First, information that may have gone unnoticed is suddenly visible and important. Second, observation data gathered systematically can be combined with other data and used in planning lessons, providing feedback to children, conducting parent conferences, and determining grades.</p>
<p>Depending on the information you are trying to gather, several days to two weeks may be required to complete a single observation of how a whole class of children is progressing on a standard. Shorter periods of observation will focus on a particular cluster of concepts or <span id="page40" class="pagebreak" title="40" />skills or on particular children. Over longer periods, you can note growth in mathematical processes or practices, such as developing problem solving, representation, or reasoning. To use observation effectively, take seriously the following maxim: Only try to collect data on a reasonable number of children in a single class period.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch03-head-01">Anecdotal Notes</h3>
</header>
<p>The act of <em>professional noticing</em> is a process where you observe learners through a focus on three phases: (1) attending; (2) interpreting; and (3) deciding (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_82" >Jacobs, Lamb, &amp; Philipp, 2010</a>). You want to collect anecdotal notes on these phases to help understand learners&#8217; strategies and thinking as you plan potential next steps. That means you <em>attend</em> to everything such as if the child is nodding his head or if she is using her fingers to count, or if she is creating appropriate models, or if he is using strategies that he can clearly describe and defend. Then <em>interpret</em> those children&#8217;s gestures, comments, drawings and actions by making notes of possible strengths and the level of sophistication of their conceptual understanding. Then you can move to noting <em>decisions</em> for subsequent instructional actions.</p>
<p>One system for recording your professional noticing is to write these anecdotal notes on an electronic tablet and store them in a spreadsheet or in a multicolumn table that documents such things as children&#8217;s use of mathematical practices. In any case, focus your observations on approximately five children a day. The children selected may be members of one or two cooperative groups or a group previously identified as needing additional support.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>