<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Money</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Money</h2></header>
<p>Here is a list of the money ideas and skills typically required in the primary grades:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Recognizing coins</p></li>
<li><p>Identifying and using the value of coins</p></li>
<li><p>Counting and comparing sets of coins</p></li>
<li><p>Creating equivalent coin collections (same amounts, different coins)</p></li>
<li><p>Selecting coins for a given amount</p></li>
<li><p>Making change</p></li>
<li><p>Solving word problems involving money (starting in second grade, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" >CCSSO, 2010</a>)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The following sections support the learning of these ideas and skills.</p>
<header id="chap15-head3_11">
<h3 class="title">Recognizing Coins and Identifying Their Values</h3>
</header>
<p>The names of our coins are conventions of our social system. Children learn these names the same way that they learn the names of any physical objects in their daily environment&#8212;through exposure and repetition.</p>
<p>The value of each coin is also a convention that children must simply be told. For these values to make sense, children must understand 5, 10, and 25 and think of these quantities without seeing countable objects. Where else do we say, &#8220;This is five,&#8221; while pointing to a single item? A child who remains tied to counting objects by ones will be challenged to understand the values of coins. Lessons about coin values should focus on purchase power&#8212;a dime can buy <em>the same thing</em> that 10 pennies can buy.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
