<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Three-Digit Number Names</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap11-head3_11">Three-Digit Number Names</h3>
</header>
<p>The approach to three-digit number names is essentially the same as for two-digit names. Show mixed arrangements of base-ten materials and have children give the base-ten name (4 hundreds, 3 tens, and 8 ones) and the standard name (438). Vary the arrangement from one example to the next by changing only one type of piece; that is, add or remove only ones or only tens or only hundreds. It is important for children with disabilities to see counterexamples, so purposefully point out that some (anonymous!) children wrote 200803 for two hundred eighty-three, and ask them whether that is correct and to explain their reasoning. The connection between oral and written numbers is not straightforward, with some researchers suggesting that an early milestone on the route to full understanding is this early (incorrect) expanded form of writing numbers (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_346" >Byrge, Smith, &amp; Mix, 2013</a>). These discussions allow children to explore their initial ideas and clear up any misunderstandings.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch11-smp-08">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch11-smp-08">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2>
</header>
<p><strong>3 Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.</strong></p>
</aside>
<p>The major challenge with three-digit numbers is with numbers involving no tens, such as 502. As noted earlier, the use of base-ten language is quite helpful here. The difficulty with zero tens (or more generally the internal zero) is more pronounced when writing numerals. For example, children frequently incorrectly write 7002 for seven hundred two. Emphasizing the meaning in the oral base-ten language will be a significant help. At first children do not see the importance of zero in place value and do not understand that zero helps us distinguish between such numbers as 203, 23, and 230 (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_349" >Dougherty, Flores, Louis, &amp; Sophian, 2010</a>). Carefully avoid calling zero a &#8220;placeholder&#8221; because it is a number with a value. Pose tasks similar to the following to emphasize the importance of zero in place value. ELLs may need additional time to think about how to say and write the numerals, because they are translating all the terms involved with the number.</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_02">
<p>Use the standard names to say the following numbers: 203, 23, and 230. As you say a number, have children write the number and then model the number with base-ten materials. Then repeat the numbers orally using base-ten language and have children check their models and written numerals.</p>
</aside>
</section>
</body>
</html>