<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Introducing Nonstandard Units</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<p><span id="page335" class="pagebreak" title="335" /></p>
<header id="chap15-head3_2">
<h3 class="title">Introducing Nonstandard Units</h3>
</header>
<p>A common approach in primary grades is to begin measurement of any attribute with nonstandard units. Although the primary emphasis at the preK-2 level is on the development of linear measurements, establishing a conceptual foundation for measuring other attributes, such as area, volume, capacity, and weight, is common. The use of nonstandard units for beginning measurement activities is beneficial for the following reasons:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p>Nonstandard units can emphasize the attribute being measured. For example, when discussing how to measure the length of a bulletin board, units such as toothpicks, straws, or paper clips may be suggested. Each of these units covers length&#8212;and actually accentuates length because each unit is thin and long. With the visual support of such nonstandard units, the discussion can focus on what it means to measure length.</p></li>
<li><p>The use of nonstandard units avoids conf licting objectives in introductory lessons. Is your lesson about what it means to measure length or about understanding inches?</p></li>
<li><p>By carefully selecting nonstandard units, the size of the numbers in early measurements can be kept reasonable. Length measures for first graders can be kept at fewer than 20 units even when measuring long distances simply by using longer units.</p></li>
<li><p>Nonstandard units provide a good rationale for standard units. The need for a standard unit has more meaning when your children measure the same objects with their own collection of nonstandard units and arrive at different answers.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Although nonstandard units offer these benefits, based on several research studies, <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_473" >Clements and Sarama (2009)</a> caution that early measuring experiences with several different units can confuse children. While children are grappling with the concept of measurement, it is important to use a few nonstandard units that clearly demonstrate the attribute being measured (e.g., for length, toothpicks as opposed to square tiles or linking cubes). Early on, children need to first understand the attribute being measured, and then the notion of matching and the use of units of equal size. Once they demonstrate understanding of these concepts, you can introduce nonstandard units of different sizes to provide the rationale for standard units. The move to standard units should be guided by how well your children understand measurement of the target attribute.</p>
<p><em>How Big Is a Foot?</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_481" >Myller, 1991</a>) tells the story of a king who measures the queen using his feet and orders a bed to be made that is 6 king&#8217;s feet long and 3 king&#8217;s feet wide. The carpenter&#8217;s apprentice, who is very small, makes the bed according to his own feet, demonstrating the need for standard units. Another tale about nonstandard units that children enjoy is <em>Twelve Snails to One Lizard</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_475" >Hightower, 1997</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
