<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Connecting Content and Learners</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 id="ch04-head-03" class="title">Connecting Content and Learners</h3>
        </header>
        <p>A critical component of differentiated lesson planning is determining how to modify four classroom elements
            to help the learner better connect with the content (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_115"
                >Tomlinson, 2003</a>). These four classroom elements are content, process,
            product, and the learning environment.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap4-head4_0">Content: What You Want Each Child to Learn</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Generally, what is learned (the big ideas) should be relatively the same for all children. However, content
            can still be differentiated in terms of depth (level of complexity) and breadth (connecting across different
            topics) (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_106" >Murray &amp; Jorgensen, 2007</a>;
            <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_111" >Small, 2012</a>). Children&#8217;s readiness typically informs the level of complexity or depth at which the
            content is initially presented for different groups of children. Interest and learning profiles tend to
            inform differentiation geared toward breadth.</p>
        <p><span id="page54" class="pagebreak" title="54" />An example of a depth adaptation for developing
            understanding and skill with organizing, representing, and interpreting data is a mini-lesson in which all
            children organize and represent data and answer questions based on the data. However, some children may have
            a smaller set of data to deal with, or they may be asked to answer given questions about the data, while
            others, who are ready for more sophisticated content, are asked to generate their own questions about the
            data. An example of a breadth adaptation for the same objective is to allow children a choice in terms of
            the kind of data with which to work. For example, based on their interests, children might choose to work
            with data pertaining to sports, books, science, or pets. By working with data from various contexts,
            children not only learn something about those contexts but also can begin to see the broader applications of
            organizing, representing, and interpreting data.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap4-head4_1">Process: How Children Engage in Thinking about Content</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Although the big ideas of a learning experience remain relatively stable when differentiating, how children
            engage with and make sense of the content&#8212;the process&#8212;changes. <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_114" >Tomlinson (1999)</a> described the process
            as children &#8220;taking different roads to the same destination&#8221;
            (p. 12). You can use different strategies or encourage children to take different &#8220;roads&#8221; to
            increase access to the essential information, ideas, and skills embedded in a lesson (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_102" >Cassone, 2009</a>; <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_115" >Tomlinson, 2003</a>). For example, the use
            of manipulatives, games, and relevant and interesting contextual problems provides different ways for
            children to process their ideas while engaging with content.</p>
        <p>The mathematical process standards in the <em>Principles and Standards for School Mathematics</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_107" >NCTM, 2000</a>), which served as a basis for
            the Standards for Mathematical Practice in the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> (<a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_103" >CCSSO, 2010</a>), lend themselves well to
            differentiating how children engage with and make sense of content. In particular, the process standard of
            representation emphasizes the need to think about and use different ways to represent mathematical ideas,
            which can help children make connections between concepts and skills.</p>
        <p>With the process standard of communication, children can use verbal or written communication as they share
            their reasoning, depending on their strengths. In addition, the process standard of problem solving allows
            for differentiation because of the myriad of strategies that children can use&#8212;from drawing a diagram
            or using manipulatives to solving a simpler problem and looking for patterns.</p>
        <p>Due to children&#8217;s different levels of readiness, it is imperative that they be allowed to use a variety
            of strategies and representations that are grounded in their own ideas to solve problems. You can facilitate
            children&#8217;s engagement in thinking about the content through a variety of methods. For example,
            teachers may</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch04_teach01">
            <header>
                <h4 class="title" id="ch04_teach01">Teaching Tip</h4>
            </header>
            
            <p>Be sure that the differentiated tasks you ask children to do are closely aligned with the learning
                objectives of the lesson.</p>
        </aside>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>Use visuals or graphic organizers to help children connect ideas and build a structure for the
                information in the lesson.</li>
            <li>Provide manipulatives to support children&#8217;s development of a concept.</li>
            <li>Provide different manipulatives than those previously used with the same content to expand
                children&#8217;s understanding.</li>
            <li>Use an appropriate context that helps children build meaning for the concept and that employs purposeful
                constraints that can highlight the significant mathematical ideas.</li>
            <li>Share examples and nonexamples to help children develop a better understanding of a concept.</li>
            <li>Gather a small group of children to develop foundational knowledge for a new concept.
            </li>
            <li><span id="page55" class="pagebreak" title="55" />Provide text or supplementary material in a
                child&#8217;s native language to aid understanding of materials written or delivered in English.</li>
            <li>Set up learning centers or a tiered lesson (a lesson that offers learners different pathways to reach a
                specific learning goal).</li>
        </ul>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap4-head4_2">Product: How Children Demonstrate What They Know, Understand, and Are
                Able to Do after the Lesson Is Over</h4>
        </header>
        <p>The term <em>product</em> can refer to what a child produces as a result of completing a single task or a
            major assessment after an extended learning experience. The products for a single task are similar to the
            ways children share their ideas in the <em>After</em> portion of a lesson, described in <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>, which could include children explaining their ideas with
            manipulatives, through a drawing, in writing, or simply verbally. The products related to an extended
            experience can take the form of a project, portfolio, test, write-up of solutions to several problem-based
            inquiries, and so on. An important feature of any product is that it allows a variety of ways for children
            to demonstrate their understanding of essential content.</p>
        <header>
            <h4 class="title" id="chap4-head4_2a">Learning Environment: The Logistics, Physical Configuration, and Tone
                of the Classroom</h4>
        </header>
        <p>Consider how the physical learning environment might be adapted to meet children&#8217;s needs. Do you have a
            child who prefers to work alone? Who prefers to work in a group? Who can or cannot work with background
            noise? Who prefers to work in a setting with brighter or dimmer lighting? Attending to these
            children&#8217;s needs can affect the seating arrangement, specific grouping strategies, access to
            materials, and other aspects of the classroom environment. In addition to the physical learning space,
            establishing a classroom culture in which children&#8217;s ideas and solutions are respected as they explain
            and justify them is an important aspect of a differentiated classroom. Refer to the recommendations provided
            in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>, <em>Teaching Mathematics through Problem
                Solving</em>, pertaining to facilitating effective classroom discussions and establishing a supportive
            and respectful learning environment.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>