<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Problem Difficulty</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="chap9-head3_4">Problem Difficulty</h3>
        </header>
        <p>The structure of some problem types is more difficult than others. Problems in which a physical action is
            taking place, as in join and separate problems, are easier because children can model or act out the
            situation. However, even within these types of problems, some problems are more difficult than others.
            Consider each of the following three problems.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_02">
            <p>Maggie had 7 bracelets. She bought 8 more bracelets. How many bracelets does Maggie now have?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_03">
            <p>Maggie had 7 bracelets. She bought some more bracelets. She now has 15 bracelets. How many did Maggie
                buy?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_04">
            <p>Maggie had some bracelets. She bought 8 more bracelets. She now has 15 bracelets. How many bracelets did
                Maggie start with?</p>
        </aside>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="ch09-stop-02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Use a set of counters to model (solve) these problems as you think children in the primary grades might
                do. Rank order the problems in terms of which ones you think would be more difficult for children. Why
                do you think one problem might be more difficult than another?</p>
        </aside>
        <p>The Join and Separate problems in which the start is unknown (e.g., Maggie had some bracelets) are often most
            difficult, probably because children attempting to model the problems directly do not know how many counters
            to put down to begin. Instead, they often use a trial-and-error approach to determine the unknown start
            amount (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_269" >Carpenter, Fennema, Franke, Levi,
                &amp; Empson, 2014</a>). Problems in which the change amounts are unknown, like the second problem
            above, can also be difficult.</p>
        <p>Part&#8211;part&#8211;whole problems can be difficult for children for two reasons: (1) There is no action to
            model because the situation describes a conceptual bringing together of quantities, which is difficult to
            directly model, and (2) it is a challenge for children to grasp that a quantity can represent two things at
            once. For example, if the problem describes 3 cars and 4 trucks in a parking lot and asks how many vehicles
            are in the lot, children have to understand that the cars and trucks are also part of the larger category of
            vehicles.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch_09_teach01">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch_09_teach01">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Many children have difficulty with problems in which the start is unknown because they try to model the
                problem in chronological order and they cannot make the set that represents the beginning of the
                problem. Suggest that children use an index card with a question mark written on it to represent the
                unknown start amount.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>Compare problems are often challenging because the language used to compare the two quantities can be complex
            for children. Fewer, less than, more, bigger, and greater than are the terms typically used to describe the
            relationships in comparison problems. Children often have more experiences with the <span id="page153"
                class="pagebreak" title="153" />relationships of more and greater than, so you need to ensure they have
            opportunities to think about relationships described using fewer and less than. Even so, some children
            misinterpret the language of &#8220;how many more&#8221; as meaning &#8220;to add&#8221; instead of
            &#8220;find the difference.&#8221; Note that when the larger amount is unknown, stating the problem using
            the term <em>more</em> is easier for children because the relationships between the quantities and the
            operation more readily correspond to each other. In the smaller unknown situation, stating the problem using
            the term <em>fewer</em> is easier for children for the same reason. Similar to the
            part&#8211;part&#8211;whole problems, the lack of a physical action in these situations makes it difficult
            for children to model or act out these kinds of problems. In fact, many children will solve compare problems
            as part&#8211;part&#8211;whole problems without making separate sets of counters for the two amounts. The
            whole is used as the large amount, one part for the small amount and the second part for the difference.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="Teaching Tip 2">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch_09_teach02">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>If children struggle to make sense of the relationship between the quantities in a comparison problem,
                suggest they cover up the number that comes before the word more/fewer (e.g., George has &#9633; more
                pennies than Sandra; Sandra has &#9633; fewer pennies than George). This strategy temporarily removes
                the number which can be a distractor so they can determine which quantity is larger or smaller.</p>
        </aside>
        <p>In most curricula in the United States, the overwhelming emphasis is on the easier join and separate problems
            with the result unknown. Consequently these become the de facto definitions of addition and subtraction:
            Addition is &#8220;put together&#8221; and subtraction is &#8220;take away.&#8221; But these are not the
            only situations in which we use addition and subtraction, as you can see from <a class="xref"
                href="chapter0009_03.xhtml#tab_9-1">Table 9.1</a>. When children develop these limited put-together and
            take-away definitions for addition and subtraction, they often have difficulty later when addition or
            subtraction is called for but the structure of the problem is something other than put together or take
            away. It is important that children experience all the problem types and structures to ensure they are
            developing a broader understanding of addition and subtraction.</p>
        <p>Take a look at this <a href="https://mediaplayer.pearsoncmg.com/assets/0607_iPad" class="ulink">video
                    clip</a> of a diagnostic interview of a second-grader named Richard. Note that Richard
            struggles with both the addition and subtraction problems he is given. What surprised you in Richard&#8217;s
            interview? How might this child struggle to solve problems in a whole class setting? What might be some next
            steps in Richard&#8217;s instruction? Now let&#8217;s look at ideas for supporting the teaching of addition
            and subtraction.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>