<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Evaluating and Adapting Tasks</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.6.1/MathJax.js?config=MML_HTMLorMML" />

</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-04">Evaluating and Adapting Tasks</h3>
</header>
<p>In a great many places you will find suggestions for tasks that <em>someone</em> believes are effective for teaching a particular mathematics concept or skill. Unfortunately, many of these readily available tasks fall short of being worthwhile or rich tasks. <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_05.xhtml#Tab_2-3">Table 2.3</a> provides some reflective questions you can use to evaluate whether a task you are considering has the maximum potential to help your children learn relevant mathematics. These questions are meant to <span id="page23" class="pagebreak" title="23" />help you consider to what extent the task meets these criteria, so all the boxes do not need to be checked off. A task could rate very high on the number of problem solving strategies, but miss the mark for having a relevant context for your children, and therefore you would decide to change the context to something more interesting. Or, the task is complete with worthwhile features and problem-solving strategies but it does not match the mathematical goals for the lesson. You may choose to alter the task to focus on the relevant mathematics or save it for when it is a better match.</p>
<figure class="Table lc_img100" id="Tab_2-3">
<header><h2 class="title"><span class="label">Table</span> <span class="number">2.3</span> Reflective questions to use in selecting worthwhile tasks.</h2></header></figure>
<table>
<thead>	
<tr>
<th colspan="2"><strong>Task Evaluation and Selection Guide</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Task Potential</strong></td>
<td>Try it and ask ...
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; What is problematic about the task?</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Is the mathematics interesting?</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; What mathematical goals does the task address (and are they aligned to what you are seeking)?</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; What strategies might students use?</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; What key concepts and/or misconceptions might this task elicit?</li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Problem-Solving Strategies</strong></td>
<td>Will the task elicit more than one problem-solving strategy
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Visualize</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Look for patterns</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Predict and check for reasonableness</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Formulate conjectures and justify claims</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Create a list, table, or chart</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Simplify or change the problem</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Write an equation</li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Worthwhile Features</strong></td>
<td>To what extent does the task have these key features:
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; High cognitive demand</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Multiple entry and exit points</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Relevant contexts</li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Assessment</strong></td>
<td>In what ways does the task provide opportunities for you to gain insights into student understanding through:
<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Using tools or models to represent mathematics</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Student reflection, justification, and explanation</li>
<li class="objective">&#x25A1; Multiple ways to demonstrate understanding</li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>You will find many problems in student textbooks, on the Internet, at workshops you attend, and in articles you read that don&#8217;t quite meet the mark of a worthwhile task. <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_22" >Boaler (2016)</a> offers the following six suggestions for adapting tasks to increase their potential for learning:</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>Allow multiple ways:</em> Modify the task so children can use multiple methods, strategies, and representations to solve.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Make it an exploration:</em> Change the task so that children must do more than complete a procedure and change it so there is potential to learn by doing the task. For example, rather than ask children to add <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/render24.png" alttext="3 plus 5" altimg-height="100" altimg-width="250" class="informalequation"><mrow><mn>3</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>5</mn></mrow></math>, ask them for various numbers they could add to get the number 8.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Postpone teaching a solution method:</em> This way children have the opportunity to use their intuition to think about the situation before learning about conventional methods. For example, prior to teaching children about bar graphs, ask them to devise ways to represent their classmates&#8217; choice of a favorite book or some other relevant data.<span id="page24" class="pagebreak" title="24" /></p></li>
<li><p><em>Add a visual requirement:</em> Visualization can be a powerful tool for enhancing understanding. You can require children to use color coding to show connections or relationships. Or require that they use two different manipulatives to justify their solution.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Increase the number of entry points:</em> To lower the floor, simply ask children to write down everything they know about the problem or the given concept. To raise the ceiling, once children have completed a task, have them write their own related questions. Challenge them to write questions that are more difficult than the original question and to justify why they are more difficult.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Reason and convince:</em> Require children to not only provide their reasoning but to be convincing in their mathematical argument and to require others to be as well. Ask learners to be skeptics and to ask clarifying questions of others. You will need to model the expectations for being a skeptic by asking children follow-up questions when they have not been convincing enough.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>Additional strategies for modifying tasks to offer differentiated challenges for children can be found in the chapter on differentiating instruction (<a class="xref" href="chapter0004_00.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>