<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Geometry Goals for Young Children</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Geometry Goals for Young Children</h2></header>
<p>For too long, geometry curriculum emphasized the learning of terminology. Geometry is much more than vocabulary and naming shapes. First, it involves spatial sense. <em>Spatial sense</em> is an intuition about shapes and the relationships between shapes and is considered a core area of mathematical study in the early grades, like number (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_507" >Sarama &amp; Clements, 2009</a>). Spatial sense includes the ability to mentally visualize objects and spatial relationships, including being able to turn things around in one&#8217;s mind. It also includes familiarity with geometric descriptions of objects and position. You may have heard the adage that you either are or are not born with spatial sense. However, meaningful experiences with shape and spatial relationships, when provided consistently over time, can and do develop spatial sense (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_508" >Sowder &amp; Wearne, 2006</a>). People with well-developed spatial sense appreciate geometric form in art, nature, and architecture and they use geometric ideas to describe and analyze their world.</p>
<p>Second, geometry has a number of significant content goals that apply to all grade levels. Let&#8217;s look at four major geometry strands:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><em>Shapes and Properties</em> includes a study of the properties of shapes in two and three dimensions, as well as a study of the relationships between properties.</li>
<li><em>Transformation</em> includes a study of translations, ref lections, and rotations (slides, flips, and turns), the study of symmetries, and the concept of similarity.</li>
<li><em>Location</em> includes a study of ways to specify how objects are located in the plane or in space, such as coordinate geometry.</li>
<li><em>Visualization</em> includes recognizing shapes in the environment, seeing and using relationships between two- and three-dimensional objects, and being able to recognize, draw, and think about objects from different viewpoints.</li>
</ul>
<p><span id="page365" class="pagebreak" title="365" />This chapter is organized around these four strands. In the section for each strand, we begin with foundational experiences and move through more challenging experiences using van Hiele&#8217;s levels of geometric thought as a guide. You will note that more attention is devoted to the shapes and properties strand to align with the emphasis identified in the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> for grades preK&#8211;2. However, you should also note that experiences targeted toward each of the strands have potential to enhance children&#8217;s understanding in the other strands.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
