<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Aspects of Questioning</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="ch02-head-07">Aspects of Questioning</h3>
</header>
<p>Questions are important in learning about children&#8217;s thinking, challenging conclusions, and extending the inquiry to help generalize patterns. Questioning is very complex and something that effective teachers continue to improve on throughout their careers. Here are some major considerations related to questioning that influence children&#8217;s learning.</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p><em>The &#8220;level&#8221; of the question asked.</em> There are numerous models that identify different levels of questions. For example, the Levels of Cognitive Demand in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_03.xhtml#Tab_2-2">Table 2.2</a> include two low-level demand categories and two high-level demand categories. Also, Bloom&#8217;s Taxonomy Revised includes six levels (knowledge, comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, evaluation), with each level meant to be more cognitively demanding than the previous (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_20" >Anderson &amp; Krathwohl, 2001</a>). However, you can still ask a low-level cognitively demanding &#8220;create&#8221; question on Bloom&#8217;s Taxonomy Revised. For example, brainstorming ideas would be lower-level than say, designing a model, but both could be categorized as &#8220;create.&#8221; Check out <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_57" >Simpson, Mokalled, Ellenburg, and Che (2015)</a> who share a tool that can help analyze the depth of knowledge that can occur across the categories in Bloom&#8217;s Taxonomy Revised. Regardless of the taxonomy or specific categories, it is critical to ask higher-level, cognitively demanding questions to support children in developing a robust understanding of mathematics.</p></li>
<li><p><em>The type of understanding that is targeted.</em> Both procedural and conceptual understanding are important, and questions must target both. If questions are limited to procedural ideas, such as &#8220;How did you solve this?&#8221; or &#8220;What are the steps?&#8221; then children will think about procedures, but not about related concepts. Questions focused on conceptual knowledge include, &#8220;Will this rule always work?&#8221; &#8220;How does the equation you wrote connect to the picture?&#8221; and &#8220;How is your strategy like Caroline&#8217;s?&#8221;<span id="page28" class="pagebreak" title="28" /></p></li>
<li><p><em>The pattern of questioning.</em> Some patterns of questioning teachers use do not lead to classroom discussions that encourage all children to think (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_36" >Herbel-Eisenmann &amp; Breyfogle, 2005</a>). One such common pattern of questioning goes like this: teacher asks a question, student answers the question, teacher confirms or challenges answer (called &#8220;initiation-response-feedback&#8221;or &#8220;IRF&#8221; pattern). Another ineffective pattern is &#8220;funneling,&#8221; when a teacher continues to probe children in ways to get them to a particular answer. This is different than a &#8220;focusing&#8221; pattern, which uses probing questions to negotiate a classroom discussion and help children understand the mathematics. The talk moves described previously are intended to help facilitate a focusing discussion.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Who is doing the thinking.</em> Make sure your questions engage all children! When you ask a great question, and only one child responds, then children will quickly figure out they don&#8217;t need to think about the answer and all your effort to ask a great question is wasted. Instead, use strategies to be sure everyone is accountable to think about the questions you pose. For example, ask children to &#8220;talk to a partner&#8221; about the question. Or have children record their ideas on a whiteboard or index card.</p></li>
<li><p><em>How you respond to an answer.</em> When you confirm a correct solution rather than use one of the talk moves, you lose an opportunity to engage children in meaningful discussions about mathematics and so limit the learning opportunities. Use children&#8217;s solutions to find out if others think the conclusions made are correct, whether they can justify why, and if there are other strategies or solutions to the problem and how they are connected.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>