<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Mathematics Classrooms That Promote Understanding</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">Mathematics Classrooms That Promote Understanding</h2>
        </header>
        <p>An important part of helping children develop relational understanding and mathematical proficiency is to
            ensure the children are the ones doing the thinking, talking, and the mathematics, however, there are other
            factors that play a role. Based on an extensive review of the literature, <a
                class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_12" >Schoenfeld and Floden (2014)</a> identified
            the following five dimensions of &#8220;productive classrooms&#8212;classrooms that produce powerful
            mathematical thinkers&#8221; (p. 2). We address each of these dimensions throughout the book, but in
            particular, in <a class="xref" href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapters 1</a>&#8211;<a class="xref"
                href="chapter0007_00.xhtml">7</a>.<span id="page12" class="pagebreak" title="12" /></p>
        <ol class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>The Mathematics:</em> We have discussed in this chapter the importance of coherent and rigorous
                    standards that promote college- and career-readiness. This includes developing procedural
                    proficiency in conjunction with conceptual understanding as well as developing productive habits of
                    minds through the mathematical processes and practices.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Cognitive Demand:</em> Productive struggle is an important part of the process of learning and
                    doing mathematics. We discuss in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> the
                    importance of engaging children in appropriate levels of challenge that allow them to productively
                    struggle. Activities throughout Part 2 of the book are designed to be high cognitive demand tasks.
                </p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Access to Mathematical Content:</em> All children must be actively engaged in learning core
                    mathematical ideas. To make this happen for some children, purposeful and appropriate levels of
                    support must be in place. These ideas are addressed in <a class="xref"
                        href="chapter0004_00.xhtml">Chapters 4</a>&#8211;<a class="xref"
                        href="chapter0006_00.xhtml">6</a>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Agency, Authority, and Identity:</em> Learning is enhanced when children are engaged with others
                    who are working on the same ideas. Encouraging student-to-student dialogue that involves making
                    conjectures, explaining, justifying, and building on each other&#8217;s ideas can help children
                    think of themselves as capable of making sense of and doers of mathematics. This goal requires that
                    the teacher create a classroom culture in which children can learn from one another, a topic that is
                    addressed in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Uses of Assessment:</em> Eliciting children&#8217;s ideas and reasoning to inform subsequent
                    instruction has the potential to contribute to everyone&#8217;s learning, especially when common
                    misunderstandings and mistakes are capitalized on and explored. We discuss assessment that supports
                    instruction and learning in <a class="xref" href="chapter0003_00.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>.</p>
            </li>
        </ol>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="teach02">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="teach02">Teaching Tip</h2>
            </header>
            
            <p>Listen carefully to children as they talk about what they are thinking and doing as they engage in a
                mathematical task. If they respond in an unexpected way, try to avoid imposing <em>your</em> ideas onto
                their ideas. Ask clarifying questions to try to make sense of the sense your children are making!</p>
        </aside>
        <p>As with most complex phenomena, these dimensions that promote a productive classroom are interrelated. For
            example, the results of assessment (dimension 5) can help identify an appropriate mathematical task
            (dimension 1) that can, in turn, affect the potential for cognitive demand (dimension 2). The degree of
            appropriate support provided (dimension 3) in conjunction with all of the above can influence how a child
            perceives him or herself as a doer of mathematics (dimension 4). Children have the best chance of becoming
            powerful mathematical thinkers and doers in classrooms where these five dimensions are implemented well.</p>
        <p>Three of the most common types of teaching are direct instruction, facilitative methods (also called a
            <em>constructivist approach</em>), and coaching (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_18"
                >Wiggins &amp; McTighe, 2005</a>). With direct instruction, the teacher usually
            demonstrates or models, lectures, and asks questions that are convergent or closed-ended in nature. With
            facilitative methods, the teacher might use investigations and inquiry, cooperative learning, discussion,
            and questions that are more open-ended. In coaching, the teacher provides children with guided practice and
            feedback that highlight ways to improve their performances. You might wonder, if the goal is to teach
            mathematics for relational understanding, which type of instructional approach is most appropriate.
            Unfortunately, there is no definitive answer because there are times when it is appropriate to engage in
            each of these types of teaching, depending on your instructional goals, the learners, and the situation.</p>
        <p>Constructivism, a theory of learning (not a theory of teaching), explains that children learn by developing
            and modifying ideas and by making connections between these ideas&#8211;and each type of instruction can
            support children&#8217;s learning when used at the appropriate time. The instructional approach chosen
            should depend on the ideas and relationships children have already constructed. Assessment can shed light on
            what and how our children understand, and, in turn, can help us determine which teaching approach may be the
            most <span id="page13" class="pagebreak" title="13" />appropriate at a given time. Sometimes children need
            time to investigate a situation so they can become aware of the different ideas at play and how those ideas
            relate to one another (facilitative). Sometimes they need to practice a skill and receive feedback on their
            performance to become more accurate (coaching). Sometimes they are ready to make connections by listening to
            a lecture (direct instruction). The key to teaching for understanding, no matter which type of teaching you
            use, is to maintain the expectation for children to reflect on and productively struggle with the situation
            at hand. In other words, regardless of instructional design, the teacher should not be doing the thinking,
            reasoning, and connection building&#8212;it must be the children who are engaged in these activities.</p>
        <p>Most people go into teaching because they want to help children learn. It is hard to think of
            allowing&#8212;much less planning for&#8212;the children in your classroom to struggle. Not showing them a
            solution when they are experiencing difficulty seems almost counterintuitive. If our goal is relational
            understanding, however, the struggle is part of the learning, and teaching becomes less about the teacher
            and more about what the children are doing and thinking.</p>
        <p>Keep in mind that you too are a learner. Some ideas in this book may make more sense to you than others. Some
            ideas may even create dissonance for you. Embrace this feeling of disequilibrium and unease as an
            opportunity to learn&#8212;to revise your perspectives on mathematics and on the teaching and learning of
            mathematics as you deepen your understanding so that you can help your children deepen theirs.</p>
        <aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch01-stop-04">
            <header>
                <h2 class="title" id="ch01-stop-04">Stop and Reflect</h2>
            </header>
            <p>Look back at the chapter and identify any ideas that challenge your current thinking about mathematics or
                about teaching and learning mathematics or that simply make you uncomfortable. Try to determine why
                these ideas challenge or raise questions for you. Write these ideas down and revisit them later as you
                read and reflect further.</p>
        </aside>
    </section>
</body>

</html>