<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Interpreting Results</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Interpreting Results</h2></header>
<p>Interpretation is the fourth step in the process of doing statistics. As seen in the sample test items shown at the beginning of the chapter, sometimes questions focus on mathematical ideas rather than statistical ideas. Although it can be helpful to ask mathematical questions, when your learning objectives are related to doing statistics, it is essential to ask questions that are statistical in nature. That means the questions focus on the context of the situation, asking what can be learned or inferred from the data.</p>
<p>The emphasis of the questions in this phase is to get children to notice differences in the data and provide possible reasons for those differences (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_522" >Franklin &amp; Mewborn, 2008</a>). You can start by engaging the class in a discussion of what information the graph shows or conveys. &#8220;What can you tell about our class by looking at this shoe graph?&#8221; Graphs convey factual information (e.g., more people wear sneakers than any other kind of shoe) and also provide opportunities to make inferences that are not directly observable in the graph (e.g., kids in this class do not like to wear leather shoes). <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_525" >Hourigan and Leavy (2015/2016)</a> identified three different levels of questions you can ask to help children interpret and reason with data displayed in graphs:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>Level 1 Questions: Reading the data</em> directly from the graph. For example, you could ask, &#8220;Which kind of shoe appears the most? Which appears the least? How many sneakers are there? Did any types of shoes appear the same number of times?</li>
<li><em>Level 2 Questions: Reading between the data</em>, which requires combining the data in some way and involves some interpretation. For example, you could ask, &#8220;How many more sneakers are there than boots? How many shoes are there in our graph? What are the two most popular kinds of shoes and how do you know?</li>
<li><em>Level 3 Questions: Reading beyond the data,</em> which involves making predictions or inferences from the data. For example, you could ask. &#8220;If someone else had collected this data and we did not know when, could we tell what time of year the data was collected? What kind of shoe would you expect most children to come to school tomorrow wearing?</li>
</ul>
<p>These questions increase in their difficulty across the three levels, with Level 3 type questions being challenging for young children. But this is a skill that can and should be developed, even with preK&#8211;2 children. Using <em>driving questions</em> <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_525" >(Houligan &amp; Leavy, 2015/206)</a> that the children are interested in can help with their motivation to engage in thinking about questions from all three levels.</p>
<p>When asked about graphs, young children tend to initially focus on individual pieces of data in a data display and not on the data as a whole (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_517" >Clements &amp; Sarama, 2009</a>). So when asked to describe something about a graph, they may state, &#8220;There I am! I ride the bus to school.&#8221; The idea is to help children consider the data set as a whole. One way to accomplish this is to draw their attention on the <em>shape of data:</em> a sense of how the data are spread or grouped. Are the data spread out uniformly? Symmetrically? Are the data clustered? Are there data points that are very different from most of the other data (outliers)? When data <span id="page421" class="pagebreak" title="421" /><span id="z23-3">are depicted on a number line, such as on a line plot, the idea of data being spread out or grouped together also takes on a numeric meaning. For example, in a measure of the heights of boys and girls in inches, we might notice that the girls&#8217; heights are spread over a wider range than the boys&#8217; heights. The boys&#8217; heights may cluster more around a particular height. </span></p>
<p>Remember the goal is to keep the focus on statistical thinking. Here are some recommended questions to get you started on having meaningful discussions about interpreting data (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_521" >Franklin et al., 2005</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_524" >Friel, O&#8217;Conner, &amp; Mamer, 2006</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_15" >Russell, 2006</a>; <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_538" >Shaughnessy, 2006</a>). (Think about how these questions relate to the three levels of questions identified by <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_525" >Hourigan and Leavy (2015/2016)</a>):</p>
<ul>
<li>What do the numbers tell us about our class (or another class)?</li>
<li>If we asked another class the same questions, how would that data look? What if we asked a larger group, how would the data look?</li>
<li>How do the numbers in this graph <em>compare</em> to this graph?</li>
<li>Where are the data &#8220;clustering&#8221;? Where are the data located that are <em>not</em> in the cluster?</li>
<li>What does the graph <em>not</em> tell us?</li>
<li>What new questions arise from these data?</li>
<li>What is the maker of the graph trying to tell us?</li>
</ul>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-labelledby="ch17-smp-06">
<header><h2 class="title" id="ch17-smp-06">Standards for Mathematical Practice</h2></header>
<p><strong>3 Reason abstractly and quantitatively.</strong></p>
</aside>
<p>These prompts apply across many data displays. Ref lecting on and responding to questions such as these certainly should be a major focus of your instruction. Consider it the <em>after</em> phase of your lesson, although some of these questions will be integrated in the <em>during</em> phase as well.</p>
<p>Our world is inundated with data. It is essential that we prepare our children to be literate about what can be interpreted from data and what cannot be interpreted from data. It is not too early to start this preparation in grades preK&#8211;2.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
