<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Supporting Children in Solving Contextual Problems</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Supporting Children in Solving Contextual Problems</h2>
</header>
<p>Solving story and contextual problems should be a significant part of your number and computation curriculum. But sometimes children are at a loss for what to do. Also, struggling readers or ELLs may need support in understanding the problem. In this section you will learn some techniques for supporting children as they work on story and contextual problems.</p>
<header>
<h3 class="title" id="chap9-head3_15"><span id="page173" class="pagebreak" title="173"/>Analyzing Contextual Problems</h3>
</header>
<p>Regardless of what grade you are teaching, it is important to always have children spend time thinking about a problem before they get started. For example, let&#8217;s consider the following problem:</p>
<aside class="sidebar sidebar_1" aria-label="print_18">
<p>Luke is saving money to buy a new model boat that costs $33. Each week his dad agrees to put $6 in a savings account if Luke does chores around the house. Luke works about 2 hours each week on his chores. How many weeks will Luke have to work before he has enough money to buy the model boat?</p>
</aside>
<p>At least two strategies can be taught that are very helpful in preparing to solve a problem: (1) think about the answer before solving the problem, and (2) work a simpler problem first.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Think about the Answer before Solving the Problem</h4>
</header>
<p>Instead of rushing in to model the numbers or do calculations, children should spend some time thinking and talking about what the answer might look like. A great strategy for differentiation is to pose the problem with the numbers missing or covered up. This eliminates the rush to a solution. For our sample problem above, here are some questions that you might have the children think about and discuss:</p>
<ul class="bulleted">
<li><p><em>What is happening in this problem?</em> Luke is working to save money to buy a boat.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Is there any extra information we don&#8217;t need?</em> We don&#8217;t need to know how many hours Luke works doing his chores each week.</p></li>
<li><p><em>What will the answer tell us?</em> The answer will tell us how many weeks Luke will have to work in order to have enough money. The answer will be some number of weeks.</p></li>
<li><p><em>Will the answer be a big number or a small number?</em> Well, each week he gets $6. If he works 10 weeks, he would have $60. He only needs $33. So it must be less than 10 weeks.</p></li>
<li><p><em>About how many weeks do you think he will have to work?</em> If he works 10 weeks, he would have $60. He only needs $33. So it is about half of that or 5 weeks.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>With this type of discussion, three things are happening. First, children are focusing on the problem and the meaning of the answer instead of solely on numbers. The specific numbers are not important in thinking about the structure of the problem. Second, with the focus on the structure of the problem, children are able to identify the numbers that are important and those that are not. Third, the thinking leads to a rough estimate of the answer. Reflecting about the meaning of the answer and about how large it might be is a useful starting point and will help in judging the reasonableness of the answer when the problem is solved.</p>
<header>
<h4 class="title">Work a Simpler Problem</h4>
</header>
<p>When the numbers in a problem overwhelm a child, the general problem-solving strategy of &#8220;try a simpler problem&#8221; can help the child think about the solution process without dealing with the cognitive overload of larger numbers or complex relationships between the numbers. A simpler problem strategy has the following steps:</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>Substitute small whole numbers for all relevant numbers in the problem.</p></li>
<li><p>Model the problem (with counters, drawings, number lines, bar diagrams, or arrays) using the new numbers.</p></li>
<li><p>Describe in words how to use the model to solve the problem. (If appropriate for your children, write an equation that solves the simpler version of the problem.)
</p></li>
<li><p><span id="page174" class="pagebreak" title="174"/>Using the description from #3, substitute the original numbers. (If using equations, write the corresponding equation, substituting the original numbers.)</p></li>
<li><p>Use the description and model (or equation) to find the answer.</p></li>
<li><p>Write the answer in a complete sentence, and decide whether it makes sense.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>With younger children, initially it will be you who is identifying how to create a simpler problem (e.g., which smaller numbers or model to use). For example, you could suggest to a struggling child to substitute $10 for the cost of the boat and
$2 for the amount Luke earns per week. With these new numbers, the answer will be a whole number. When the child can describe a correct strategy and solution with these numbers, have the child solve the problem using the numbers $11 and $2 per week. These new numbers are close to the ones in the problem just successfully solved by the child but introduce the fractional idea that is present in the original problem. Through this process, children are introduced to the strategies and tools they can use to analyze and approach a problem when they are struck. Again, the focus remains on using reasoning and sense making.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>