<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What&#8217;s New to Part 2?</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">What&#8217;s New to Part 2?</h2>
        </header>
        <p>In addition to the changes listed previously that are included across all three volumes, there are many
            changes specific to Volume I, Part 2 to meet the needs of primary learners. Across all content chapters,
            more activities and many activities pages were added, in particular to address hard-to-teach topics. The
            list below highlights significant new content in a number of chapters.</p>
        <blockquote>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0008_00.xhtml"> Chapter 8</a>: Early Number Concepts and Number Sense.</em> We have included a new learning progression
                for counting that identifies increasingly sophisticated levels of reasoning. In addition, there are
                several new activities focused on developing early counting skills. We have also included a new section
                on thinking about zero. Although zero is one of the most important digits in our base-ten system, we
                find that too often because early counting often involves touching an object, zero is not included in
                discussions about numbers and counting. We have tried to be more cognizant of this tendency and have
                included more tasks, questions, and purposeful discussions about the number zero in this and other
                chapters.<span id="pagexvii" class="pagebreak" title="xvii" /></p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0009_00.xhtml"> Chapter 9</a>: Meanings for Operations.</em> We increased the focus on helping children write equations
                from word problems, using both computational and semantic forms. We also improved the section on helping
                children analyze contextual problems by detailing strategies that can help children prepare to solve
                problems. A new section was added about helping children solve multistep problems, including the use of
                hidden questions to help children progress from one-step to multistep problems.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0010_00.xhtml"> Chapter 10</a>: Basic Facts.</em> In <a class="xref" href="chapter0010_00.xhtml">Chapter 10</a> there is
                an increased emphasis on assessing basic facts. We present the risks of using timed tests and share a
                collection of alternative assessment ideas. There is also a new recommendation to develop fluency with
                foundational facts first (e.g., <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="../images/Welcome_pagexvii.png" alttext="plus 0 comma space plus 1 comma space plus 2 comma" altimg-height="15" altimg-width="100" class="informalequation">
<mo>+</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mo>&#xA0;</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>,</mo></math> Doubles, and Combinations of 10), before working on other
                basic facts. Finally, as described in the CCSS and related research, there is a shift from a focus on
                mastery to a focus on fluency. Also included are new activities and games to support basic fact fluency.
            </p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0012_00.xhtml"> Chapter 12</a>: Whole Number Computation Strategies.</em> There is an enhanced section that discusses the
                connection between place value and addition and subtraction. More examples of the equal additions
                strategy are provided for clarification. And a new section about computational estimation includes
                recommendations for instruction and several new activities.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0016_00.xhtml"> Chapter 16</a>: Geometry</em>. <a class="xref" href="chapter0016_00.xhtml">Chapter 16</a> has been
                reorganized around the four geometry strands (shapes and properties, location, transformations,
                visualization) to provide a more cohesive approach to introducing geometry to children. As each level of
                geometric thinking is introduced, examples of appropriate activities are presented to help clarify each
                geometric level.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0017_00.xhtml"> Chapter 17</a>: Data.</em> The new addition of <em>driving questions</em> (<a
                    class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_525" >Hourigan &amp; Leavy, 2015/2016</a>) is
                introduced as a way to motivate children&#8217;s involvement in the processes of doing statistics. There
                is an increased emphasis on helping children consider the shape of the data as they engage in the
                analysis and interpretation phases of doing statistics. We also share three levels of questions you can
                ask to help children interpret and reason with data displayed in graphs.</p>
        </blockquote>
    </section>
</body>

</html>