<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What Special Features Appear in Pearson&#8217;s Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">What Special Features Appear in Pearson&#8217;s Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</h2>
        </header>
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="pre-head-01">Features Found in Parts 1 and 2</h3>
        </header>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>Teaching Tips.</em> These brief tips identify practical take-away ideas that can support the
                    teaching and learning of specific chapter content being addressed. These might be an instructional
                    suggestion, a particular point about language use, a common student misconception, or a suggestion
                    about a resource.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Stop and Reflect.</em> Reflective thinking is the key to effective learning. This is true not
                    only for our students but also for ourselves as we continue to learn more about effective
                    mathematics teaching. Keep your eye out for these sections that ask you to pause to solve a problem
                    or reflect on some aspect of what you have read. These Stop and Reflect sections do not signal every
                    important idea, but we have tried to place them where it seemed natural and helpful for you to slow
                    down a bit and think deeply about an idea. In addition, every chapter in Part 1 ends with a Stop and
                    Reflect section. Use these for discussions in professional learning communities or for reflection on
                    your own.<span id="pagexviii" class="pagebreak" title="xviii" /></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>Downloadable Resources including Activity Pages and Expanded
                        Lessons.</em> Many activities that previously required cards or recording sheets now include
                    these as ready-to-use,
                    downloadable pages. You will also find a variety of downloadable resources that support teaching
                    activities such as formative assessment and team-building activities. You can access these
                    downloadable pages by clicking the blue text in the eText at point of use.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>Videos.</em> The book now includes a collection of videos that are
                    positioned right when you need them&#8212;when a child&#8217;s misconception during a diagnostic
                    interview will reinforce a point, when a strategy needs a more in-depth description or when it helps
                    to see a teacher carry out an idea in a classroom of children. When accessing the e-book, you can
                    click on the link to see an idea in action. There is also a video of John Van de Walle sharing some
                    of his insights on how to teach a mathematics topic through the perspective of a student-centered,
                    problem-based approach.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>