<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Additional Features Found in Part 2</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h3 class="title" id="pre-head-02">Additional Features Found in Part 2</h3>
        </header>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>NCTM Teaching Practices Appendix.</em> The <em>Principles to
                        Actions</em> (<a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_154" >NCTM, 2014</a>)
                    eight teaching practices are provided in <a class="xref" href="appendix_c_00.xhtml">Appendix
                        C</a><em>.</em> These describe the actions that teachers do to support student thinking and
                    provide guidance on how to enact student-centered mathematics.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>Blackline Masters Hyperlinked in Chapters.</em> Blackline Masters
                    are used in some of the activities and Expanded Lessons. Look for the call outs for the hyperlinks
                    embedded in the activities that alert you to the corresponding print-friendly PDF of the Blackline
                    Master. In <a href="appendix_e_00.xhtml"> Appendix E</a>, you will find a list of the Blackline Masters and a thumbnail version of
                    each.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>Activities Correspond to the CCSS-M.</em> Numerous problem-based
                    tasks are presented in activity boxes that are connected to the appropriate <em>Common Core State
                        Standards for Mathematics</em>. Additional ideas are described directly in the text or in the
                    illustrations. They are designed to engage your children in <em>doing</em> mathematics (as described
                    in <a href="chapter0002_00.xhtml"> Chapter 2</a>). Most of these activities are presented in the numbered activity boxes and include adaptation and
                    accommodation suggestions for English language learners and children with special needs denoted with
                    icons for easy reference. In addition, activities that incorporate technology are denoted with a
                    technology icon. In <a href="appendix_d_00.xhtml"> Appendix D</a>, you will find <em>Activities at a Glance</em>. This table lists all
                    the named and numbered activities with a short statement about the mathematical content goal for
                    each, the CCSS-M standard(s) and the page number where it can be located.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>It is important that you see these activities as an integral part of the text that surrounds them. The
            activities are inserted as examples to support the development of the mathematics being discussed and how
            your children can be supported in learning that content. Therefore, we hope that you will not use any
            activity for instruction without reading carefully the full text in which it is embedded.</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>New! Downloadable Expanded Lessons.</em> In each chapter, one or more activities have been
                    expanded it into a complete lesson plan, following the <em>before, during, after</em> structure
                    described in <a class="xref" href="chapter0002_00.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> and are available by clicking
                    on the link in the eText. These Expanded Lessons provide a model for converting an activity
                    description into a full lesson that can engage children in developing a robust understanding of the
                    related concept. In this new edition, all of the Expanded Lessons are now aligned with CCSSO
                    grade-level recommendations and include adaptation suggestions for English language learners and
                    children with disabilities. Many use the new Activity Pages or Blackline Masters.<span id="pagexix"
                        class="pagebreak" title="xix" /></p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><strong><em>New!</em></strong> <em>Common Errors and Misconceptions.</em> Each chapter in Part 2
                    includes a table with common errors and misconceptions for chapter-related mathematical topics. This
                    table includes examples of student work or verbal responses you should look for when a child is
                    exhibiting these errors and ways to help the child move past these mistaken understandings. Using
                    these tables, you can anticipate how you might support children in confronting common barriers so
                    they can be unearthed and debunked. These lists also help you plan for gathering student assessment
                    data that is targeted to catch areas of confusion or misconceptions prior to formally assessing
                    children on a high-stakes evaluation of their performance. These examples were identified through
                    the research literature and from the voices of teachers like yourself, about the common mistakes
                    their children are making.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Formative Assessment Notes.</em> Assessment should be an integral part of instruction. As you
                    read, we want you to think about what to listen and look for (assess) in different areas of content
                    development. Therefore, you will find Formative Assessment Notes that describe ways to assess your
                    children&#8217;s developing knowledge and understanding. These Formative Assessment Notes can also
                    help improve your understanding about how to help your children through targeted instruction.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Technology Notes.</em> These notes provide practical information about how technology can be used
                    to help your children learn the content in that section. Descriptions include open-source software,
                    interactive applets, and other Web-based resources&#8212;all of which are free.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Standards for Mathematical Practice Notes.</em> Connections to the eight Standards of
                    Mathematical Practice from the <em>Common Core State Standards</em> are highlighted in the margins.
                    The location of the note indicates an example of the identified practice in the nearby text.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Common Core State Standards Appendices.</em> The <em>Common Core State Standards</em> outline
                    eight Standards for Mathematical Practice (<a class="xref" href="appendix_a_00.xhtml">Appendix
                        A</a>) that help children develop and demonstrate a deep understanding of and capacity to do
                    mathematics. We initially describe these practices in <a class="xref"
                        href="chapter0001_00.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> and highlight examples of the mathematical practices
                    throughout the content chapters in Part 2 through margin notes. We used the <em>Common Core State
                        Standards for Mathematics</em> <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_3"
                        >(CCSSO, 2010)</a> as a guide to determine the content emphasis in each
                    volume of the series. <a class="xref" href="appendix_b_00.xhtml">Appendix B</a> provides a list of
                    the critical content areas for each grade level discussed in this volume.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Big Ideas.</em> Much of the research and literature espousing a developmental approach suggests
                    that teachers plan their instruction around &#8220;big ideas&#8221; rather than isolated skills or
                    concepts. At the beginning of each chapter, you will find a list of the key mathematical ideas
                    associated with the chapter. These lists of learning targets can provide a snapshot of the
                    mathematics you are teaching.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </section>
</body>

</html>