<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What Are the New eText Features?</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">What Are the New eText Features?</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Each volume in the Student-Centered Mathematics Series is also available as an Enhanced Pearson eText<a
                href="frontmatter05c.xhtml#footnote_star"><sup>*</sup></a> with the following point-of-use features:</p>
        <ul class="bulleted">
            <li>
                <p><em>Downloadable Activity Pages and Blackline Masters.</em> Hyperlinks provide access to ready-to-use
                    teaching resources including Activity Pages and Blackline Masters to support students&#8217;
                    engagement in a large number of math activities.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Videos.</em> Links to videos allow teachers to observe an interview with a child, watch an idea
                    play out in a classroom, or listen to a more in-depth description of an important math concept.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Activities Correspond to CCSS-M.</em> The numerous problem-based tasks presented in activity
                    boxes are now connected to the appropriate <em>Common Core State Standards for Mathematics</em>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p><em>Immediate Access to Expanded Lessons.</em> A custom basket located on the navigation bar links
                    teachers to full and Expanded Lessons and include the Blackline Masters or Activity Pages if needed
                    to execute each lesson. Expanded Lessons are referenced at point-of-use in numbered math activities
                    throughout the eText.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p class="source" id="footnote_star">*These features are only available in the Pearson eText, available
            exclusively from www.pearsonhighered.com/etextbooks or
            by ordering the Pearson eText plus Vol I Book Package (ISBN: 0134090683) or the Pearson eText Access Code
            Card (ISBN: 0134556453).</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>