<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Acknowledgments</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">Acknowledgments</h2>
</header>
<p>We would like to begin by acknowledging <em>you:</em> the reader, the teacher, the leader, and the advocate for your children. The strong commitment of teachers and teacher leaders to always strive to improve how we teach mathematics is the reason this book was written in the first place. And, because of ongoing input and feedback, we endeavored to revise this edition to meet your changing needs. We have received thoughtful input from many teachers and reviewers, and all of it has informed the development of this substantially revised third edition!</p>
<p>In preparing the third edition we benefited from the thoughtful input of the following educators who offered comments on the second edition or on the manuscript for the <span id="pagexx" class="pagebreak" title="xx" />third: Dr. Lucia M. Flevares, The Ohio State University; Melanie N. Woods, Wright State University. Their comments helped push our thinking on many important topics. Many specific suggestions offered by these reviewers found their way into the pages of this book. We offer our sincere appreciation to these esteemed educators for their valued suggestions and constructive feedback.</p>
<p>As we reviewed standards, research, and teaching articles; visited classrooms; and collected students&#8217; work samples, we were continually reminded of the amazing commitment to effective mathematics teaching and learning. From the mathematics educators and mathematicians working on standards documents, to the teachers who facilitate discussions about mathematics in preK&#8211;grade 8 classrooms and then share the results with others, we are grateful for the broad and heartfelt commitment to mathematics education for <em>all</em> students on the part of so many educators&#8212;particularly the teachers with whom we have worked in recent years.</p>
<p>We also want to acknowledge the strong support of our editorial team throughout the process, from the first discussions about what the third edition might include, through the tedious editing at later stages in the development. Without their support, the final product would not be the quality resource we hope you find it to be. Specifically, we thank Meredith Fossil for helping us envision our work, Linda Bishop for seeing this vision through, and both of them for their words of encouragement and wisdom. Working on three volumes of a book simultaneously is quite an undertaking! We are also truly grateful for Miryam Chandler at Pearson and Jason Hammond and the team at SPi Global who helped us wade through the permissions process and the production and editing of our new edition and eText.</p>
<p>Even with the support of so many, researching and writing takes time. Simple words cannot express the gratitude we have to our families for their support, patience, and contributions to the production of these books. Briefly we recognize them by name here: Karen thanks her husband, Bob Ronau, and her children and grandchildren, Matthew, Tammy, Josh, Misty, Matt, Christine, Jeff, Pamela, Jessica, Zane, Madeline, Jack, and Emma. LouAnn thanks her husband, Ramsey, and her two sons, Nathan and Jacob. Jennifer thanks her husband, Mitch, and her children, MacKenna and Nicolas.</p>
<p>The origin of this book began many years ago with the development of <em>Elementary and Middle School Mathematics: Teaching Developmentally</em> by John A. Van de Walle. What began as a methods book for preservice teachers spread enthusiastically throughout the teaching community because it offered content support, activities, and up-to-date best practices for teaching mathematics. The three-volume series was developed as a way to focus on and expand the specific grade-level topics. John was adamant that <em>all</em> children can learn to reason and make sense of mathematics. We acknowledge his commitment and his significant contributions to the field of mathematics education. His ideas and enduring vision continue to inspire the work you see in this new edition.</p>
<p>The response to the second edition has been amazing. We hope the third edition will be received with as much interest and enthusiasm as the second and continue to be a valuable support to your mathematics teaching and your children&#8217;s learning.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>