<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What&#8217;s New in Part 1?</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title">What&#8217;s New in Part 1?</h2>
        </header>
        <p>Part 1 consists of seven chapters that focus on important &#8220;hot&#8221; topics that address ideas for
            creating a classroom environment in which all students can succeed. These chapters are, by design, shorter
            in length than the content chapters in Part 2, but are full of effective strategies and ideas. The intent is
            that these chapters can be used in professional development workshops, book study, or professional learning
            community (PLC) discussions. Changes to Part 1 chapters include:</p>
        <blockquote>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0001_00.xhtml"> Chapter 1</a>: Setting a Vision for Learning High-Quality Mathematics</em>. Changes to this chapter
                include a new table that relates CCSS-M&#8217;s mathematical practices (<a
                    class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_3" >CCSSO, 2010</a>) to <a
                    class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_154" >NCTM&#8217;s process standards
                    (2000)</a>, clarification about the difference between modeling mathematics and modeling with
                mathematics, and an additional emphasis on the characteristics of productive classrooms that promote
                student understanding.<span id="pagexvi" class="pagebreak" title="xvi" /></p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0002_00.xhtml"> Chapter 2</a>: Teaching Mathematics through Problem Solving</em>. The eight mathematics teaching
                practices from <a class="noteref_biblioref" href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_51" ><em>Principles to
                        Actions</em> (NCTM, 2014)</a> have been added! In addition, several new
                sections were added: evaluating and adapting tasks to increase their potential for learning, growth
                versus fixed mindsets (connected to productive struggle and learning from mistakes); and effective
                aspects of questioning. Finally, more detail pertaining to the three-phases (before, during, and after)
                is provided.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0003_00.xhtml"> Chapter 3</a>: Creating Assessments for Learning</em>. Supported by the recent position statement from
                professional organizations (NCSM and AMTE) about assessment for learning (AFL), this chapter was revised
                to be more explicit about how to collect evidence from students on their progress, interpret that
                evidence, make informed decisions about the next instructional steps and provide actionable feedback to
                students. There is also an expanded section on using writing to learn mathematics.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0004_00.xhtml"> Chapter 4</a>: Differentiating Instruction</em>. This chapter was revised to better highlight
                differentiated tasks for whole-classroom instruction. You will also find new team-building activities to
                enhance your students&#8217; interactions with each other when working in groups.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0005_00.xhtml"> Chapter 5</a>: Teaching Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Students</em>. In this chapter, significant
                revisions were made to reflect research in the field (twenty-two new references). Among these changes
                was increased attention to Culturally Responsive Mathematics Instruction (CRMI), developed around four
                key aspects and an expanded section on nurturing students&#8217; mathematical identities.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0006_00.xhtml"> Chapter 6</a>: Planning, Teaching, and Assessing Students with Exceptionalities</em>. Several new tools
                were added to this chapter including a printable set of cards, each with a Strategy for Making Math
                Accessible for learners who struggle. This tool can be used when planning core instruction modifications
                or interventions for students with special needs. There is also a Mathematics Integration Plan Template
                to support planning for gifted students or students with a high interest in exploring mathematical
                topics in relation to other subject areas or perspectives.</p>
            <p><em><a href="chapter0007_00.xhtml"> Chapter 7</a>: Collaborating with Families and Other Stakeholders</em>. This chapter was significantly
                revised to focus on advocacy across stakeholders. This included increased attention to communicating
                about CCSS Mathematics. Finally, the homework section was expanded, including new activities and games
                for families.</p>
        </blockquote>
    </section>
</body>

</html>