<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>What Are Our Goals for the Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</title>
<link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet"></link>
<script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
<header>
<h2 class="title">What Are Our Goals for the Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</h2>
</header>
<p>Creating a classroom in which children design their solution pathways, engage in productive struggle, and connect mathematical ideas is complex. Questions arise,
such as, &#8220;How do I get children to wrestle with problems if they just want me to show them how to do it? What kinds of tasks lend themselves to this type of engagement? Where can I learn the mathematics content I need in order to be able to teach in this way?&#8221; With these and other questions firmly in mind, we have three main objectives for the third edition of this series:</p>
<ol class="numbered">
<li><p>Illustrate what it means to teach mathematics using a student-centered, problem-based approach.</p></li>
<li><p>Serve as a go-to reference for all of the mathematics content suggested for grades PreK-2 as recommended in the <em>Common Core State Standards for Mathematics</em> <a href="bibliography.xhtml#ref_366" class="noteref_biblioref">(CCSSO, 2010)</a> and in other standards used by various states, as well as research-based strategies that depict how children best learn this content.</p></li>
<li><p>Present a practical resource of robust, problem-based activities and tasks that can engage children in the mathematics that is important for them to learn.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>These are also goals of <em>Elementary and Middle School Mathematics: Teaching Developmentally,</em>
a comprehensive resource for teachers in grades K&#8211;8, which has been widely used in universities and in schools. There is overlap between the comprehensive K&#8211;8 book and this Student-Centered Mathematics Series; however, we have adapted the Student-Centered Mathematics Series to be more useful for a practicing classroom teacher by addressing the content for specific grade bands (with more activities!), removing content aimed at preservice teachers, and adding additional information more appropriate for practicing teachers. We hope you will find that this is a valuable resource for teaching and learning mathematics!</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>