<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What&#8217;s New to the Third Edition of the Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</title>
    <link href="../css/main.css" title="day" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/night.css" title="night" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <link href="../css/sepia.css" title="sepia" type="text/css" rel="alternate stylesheet">
    </link>
    <script src="../javascript/format_lg_obj.js" type="text/javascript" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="cover" class="chapter">
        <header>
            <h2 class="title"><span id="pagexv" class="pagebreak" title="xv" />What&#8217;s New to the Third Edition of
                the Student-Centered Mathematics Series?</h2>
        </header>
        <p>The most significant change to the third edition is its availability as an Enhanced Pearson eText. Teachers
            can now take advantage of eText technology, easily accessing downloadable resources to support many of the
            math activities offered in the text and linking to videos that demonstrate how to teach certain math
            concepts. Another big change is that the third edition appears in four-color so pedagogical features are
            more easily found and studied. We are hopeful too that the addition of color helps to enhance and clarify
            the ideas we have intended to convey. We have also included some new features that we briefly describe
            here. (More detailed information about the new features can be found in the following section.) We then
            highlight the most substantial changes we have made to specific chapters to reflect the changing landscape
            of mathematics education.</p>
    </section>
</body>

</html>